001 Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. 
002 So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at the table. 
003 Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. 
004 But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples (he who was about to betray him), said, 
005 `Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?` 
006 He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of the moneybag he used to help himself to what was put into it. 
007 Jesus said, `Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. 
008 The poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me.` 
009 When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus was there, they came, not only on account of him but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. 
010 So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well, 
011 because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus. 
012 The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. 
013 So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out, `Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!` 
014 And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written, 
015 `Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt!` 
016 His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him. 
017 The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness. 
018 The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign. 
019 So the Pharisees said to one another, `You see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him.` 
020 Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. 
021 So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, `Sir, we wish to see Jesus.` 
022 Philip went and told Andrew; Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. 
023 And Jesus answered them, `The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. 
024 Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit. 
025 Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. 
026 If anyone serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. 
027 `Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? 'Father, save me from this hour'? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. 
028 Father, glorify your name.` Then a voice came from heaven: `I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again.` 
029 The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, `An angel has spoken to him.` 
030 Jesus answered, `This voice has come for your sake, not mine. 
031 Now is the judgment of this world; now will the ruler of this world be cast out. 
032 And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself.` 
033 He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. 
034 So the crowd answered him, `We have heard from the Law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?` 
035 So Jesus said to them, `The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. 
036 While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light.` When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. 
037 Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him, 
038 so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: `Lord, who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?` 
039 Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said, 
040 `He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them.` 
041 Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. 
042 Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue; 
043 for they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. 
044 And Jesus cried out and said, `Whoever believes in me, believes not in me but in him who sent me. 
045 And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. 
046 I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. 
047 If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save the world. 
048 The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge; the word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. 
049 For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment- what to say and what to speak. 
050 And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me.` 
