001 Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him. 
002 And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe. 
003 They came up to him, saying, `Hail, King of the Jews!` and struck him with their hands. 
004 Pilate went out again and said to them, `See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him.` 
005 So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, `Behold the man!` 
006 When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, `Crucify him, crucify him!` Pilate said to them, `Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him.` 
007 The Jews answered him, `We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God.` 
008 When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. 
009 He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, `Where are you from?` But Jesus gave him no answer. 
010 So Pilate said to him, `You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you?` 
011 Jesus answered him, `You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin.` 
012 From then on Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, `If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar.` 
013 So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called The Stone Pavement, and in Aramaic Gabbatha. 
014 Now it was the day of Preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, `Behold your King!` 
015 They cried out, `Away with him, away with him, crucify him!` Pilate said to them, `Shall I crucify your King?` The chief priests answered, `We have no king but Caesar.` 
016 So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus, 
017 and he went out, bearing his own cross, to the place called the place of a skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. 
018 There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. 
019 Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, `Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews.` 
020 Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. 
021 So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, `Do not write, 'The King of the Jews,' but rather, 'This man said, I am King of the Jews.'` 
022 Pilate answered, `What I have written I have written.` 
023 When the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier; also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom, 
024 so they said to one another, `Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be.` This was to fulfill the Scripture which says, `They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.` So the soldiers did these things, 
025 but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. 
026 When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, `Woman, behold, your son!` 
027 Then he said to the disciple, `Behold, your mother!` And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. 
028 After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said ( to fulfill the Scripture), `I thirst.` 
029 A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. 
030 When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, `It is finished,` and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. 
031 Since it was the day of Preparation, and so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away. 
032 So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who had been crucified with him. 
033 But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. 
034 But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. 
035 He who saw it has borne witness- his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth- that you also may believe. 
036 For these things took place that the Scripture might be fulfilled: `Not one of his bones will be broken.` 
037 And again another Scripture says, `They will look on him whom they have pierced.` 
038 After these things Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away his body. 
039 Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds in weight. 
040 So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. 
041 Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. 
042 So because of the Jewish day of Preparation, since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there. 
