001 `Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber. 
002 But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
003 To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. 
004 When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. 
005 A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers.` 
006 This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. 
007 So Jesus again said to them, `Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. 
008 All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. 
009 I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. 
010 The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. 
011 I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. 
012 He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. 
013 He flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. 
014 I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, 
015 just as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. 
016 And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. 
017 For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. 
018 No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge I have received from my Father.` 
019 There was again a division among the Jews because of these words. 
020 Many of them said, `He has a demon, and is insane; why listen to him?` 
021 Others said, `These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?` 
022 At that time the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter, 
023 and Jesus was walking in the temple, in the colonnade of Solomon. 
024 So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, `How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.` 
025 Jesus answered them, `I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, 
026 but you do not believe because you are not part of my flock. 
027 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 
028 I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. 
029 My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. 
030 I and the Father are one.` 
031 The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. 
032 Jesus answered them, `I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you going to stone me?` 
033 The Jews answered him, `It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God.` 
034 Jesus answered them, `Is it not written in your Law, 'I said, you are gods'? 
035 If he called them gods to whom the word of God came- and Scripture cannot be broken- 
036 do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, 'You are blaspheming,' because I said, 'I am the Son of God'? 
037 If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me; 
038 but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father.` 
039 Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands. 
040 He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained. 
041 And many came to him. And they said, `John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true.` 
042 And many believed in him there. 
