001 And king Solomon is king over all Israel,  
002 and these `are' the heads whom he hath: Azariah son of Zadok `is' the priest; 
003 Elihoreph and Ahiah sons of Shisha `are' scribes; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud `is' remembrancer; 
004 and Benaiah son of Jehoiada `is' over the host; and Zadok and Abiathar `are' priests; 
005 and Azariah son of Nathan `is' over the officers; and Zabud son of Nathan `is' minister, friend of the king; 
006 And Ahishar `is' over the household, and Adoniram son of Abda `is' over the tribute. 
007 And Solomon hath twelve officers over all Israel, and they have sustained the king and his household -- a month in the year is on each one for sustenance;  
008 and these `are' their names: Ben-Hur in the hill-country of Ephraim; 
009 Ben-Dekar in Makaz, and Shaalbim, and Beth-Shemesh, and Elon-Beth-Hanan.  
010 Ben-Hesed `is' in Aruboth, hath Sochoh and all the land of Hepher; 
011 Ben-Abinadab `hath' all the elevation of Dor, Taphath daughter of Solomon became his wife. 
012 Baana Ben-Ahilud `hath' Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-Shean, which `is' by Zartanah beneath Jezreel, from Beth-Shean unto Abel-Meholah, unto beyond Jokneam. 
013 Ben-Geber, in Ramoth-Gilead, hath the small towns of Jair son of Manasseh, which `are' in Gilead; he hath a portion of Argob that `is' in Bashan, sixty great cities `with' wall and brazen bar. 
014 Ahinadab son of Iddo `hath' Mahanaim. 
015 Ahimaaz `is' in Naphtali; he also hath taken Basemath daughter of Solomon for a wife. 
016 Baanah Ben-Hushai `is' in Asher, and in Aloth. 
017 Jehoshaphat Ben-Paruah `is' in Issachar. 
018 Shimei Ben-Elah `is' in Benjamin. 
019 Geber Ben-Uri `is' in the land of Gilead, the land of Sihon king of the Amorite, and of Og king of Bashan: and one officer who `is' in the land. 
020 Judah and Israel `are' many, as the sand that `is' by the sea for multitude, eating and drinking and rejoicing. 
021 And Solomon hath been ruling over all the kingdoms, from the River `to' the land of the Philistines and unto the border of Egypt: they are bringing nigh a present, and serving Solomon, all days of his life. 
022 And the provision of Solomon for one day is thirty cors of flour, and sixty cors of meal;  
023 ten fat oxen, and twenty feeding oxen, and a hundred sheep, apart from hart, and roe, and fallow-deer, and fatted beasts of the stalls,  
024 for he is ruling over all beyond the river, from Tiphsah and unto Gaza, over all the kings beyond the river, and he hath peace from all his servants round about.  
025 And Judah dwelleth -- and Israel -- in confidence, each under his vine, and under his fig-tree, from Dan even unto Beer-Sheba, all the days of Solomon.  
026 And Solomon hath forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.  
027 And these officers have sustained king Solomon and every one drawing near unto the table of king Solomon, each `in' his month; they let nothing be lacking. 
028 And the barley and the straw, for horses and for dromedaries, they bring in unto the place where they are, each according to his ordinance.  
029 And God giveth wisdom to Solomon, and understanding, very much, and breadth of heart, as the sand that `is' on the edge of the sea; 
030 and the wisdom of Solomon is greater than the wisdom of any of the sons of the east, and than all the wisdom of Egypt;  
031 and he is wiser than all men, than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, sons of Mahol, and his name is in all the nations round about.  
032 And he speaketh three thousand similes, and his songs `are' five, and the chief one; 
033 and he speaketh concerning the trees, from the cedar that `is' in Lebanon, even unto the hyssop that is coming out in the wall, and he speaketh concerning the cattle, and concerning the fowl, and concerning the creeping things, and concerning the fishes, 
034 and there come out of all the peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth who have heard of his wisdom.  
