001 Do not rebuke an older man but encourage him as you would a father. Treat younger men like brothers, 
002 older women like mothers, younger women like sisters, in all purity. 
003 Honor widows who are truly widows. 
004 But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. 
005 She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day, 
006 but she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives. 
007 Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach. 
008 But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. 
009 Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been the wife of one husband, 
010 and having a reputation for good works: if she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed the feet of the saints, has cared for the afflicted, and has devoted herself to every good work. 
011 But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry 
012 and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith. 
013 Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies, saying what they should not. 
014 So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander. 
015 For some have already strayed after Satan. 
016 If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened, so that it may care for those who are really widows. 
017 Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching. 
018 For the Scripture says, `You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain,` and, `The laborer deserves his wages.` 
019 Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses. 
020 As for those who persist in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear. 
021 In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels I charge you to keep these rules without prejudging, doing nothing from partiality. 
022 Do not be hasty in the laying on of hands, nor take part in the sins of others; keep yourself pure. 
023 (No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments.) 
024 The sins of some men are conspicuous, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others appear later. 
025 So also good works are conspicuous, and even those that are not cannot remain hidden. 
