001 Now when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites had made a raid against the Negeb and against Ziklag. They had overcome Ziklag and burned it with fire 
002 and taken captive the women and all who were in it, both small and great. They killed no one, but carried them off and went their way. 
003 And when David and his men came to the city, they found it burned with fire, and their wives and sons and daughters taken captive. 
004 Then David and the people who were with him raised their voices and wept until they had no more strength to weep. 
005 David's two wives also had been taken captive, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail the widow of Nabal of Carmel. 
006 And David was greatly distressed, for the people spoke of stoning him, because all the people were bitter in soul, each for his sons and daughters. But David strengthened himself in the LORD his God. 
007 And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, `Bring me the ephod.` So Abiathar brought the ephod to David. 
008 And David inquired of the LORD, `Shall I pursue after this band? Shall I overtake them?` He answered him, `Pursue, for you shall surely overtake and shall surely rescue.` 
009 So David set out, and the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the brook Besor, where those who were left behind stayed. 
010 But David pursued, he and four hundred men. Two hundred stayed behind, who were too exhausted to cross the brook Besor. 
011 They found an Egyptian in the open country and brought him to David. And they gave him bread and he ate. They gave him water to drink, 
012 and they gave him a piece of a cake of figs and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten, his spirit revived, for he had not eaten bread or drunk water for three days and three nights. 
013 And David said to him, `To whom do you belong? And where are you from?` He said, `I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me behind because I fell sick three days ago. 
014 We had made a raid against the Negeb of the Cherethites and against that which belongs to Judah and against the Negeb of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire.` 
015 And David said to him, `Will you take me down to this band?` And he said, `Swear to me by God that you will not kill me or deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will take you down to this band.` 
016 And when he had taken him down, behold, they were spread abroad over all the land, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah. 
017 And David struck them down from twilight until the evening of the next day, and not a man of them escaped, except four hundred young men, who mounted camels and fled. 
018 David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken, and David rescued his two wives. 
019 Nothing was missing, whether small or great, sons or daughters, spoil or anything that had been taken. David brought back all. 
020 David also captured all the flocks and herds, and the people drove the livestock before him, and said, `This is David's spoil.` 
021 Then David came to the two hundred men who had been too exhausted to follow David, and who had been left at the brook Besor. And they went out to meet David and to meet the people who were with him. And when David came near to the people he greeted them. 
022 Then all the wicked and worthless fellows among the men who had gone with David said, `Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have recovered, except that each man may lead away his wife and children, and depart.` 
023 But David said, `You shall not do so, my brothers, with what the LORD has given us. He has preserved us and given into our hand the band that came against us. 
024 Who would listen to you in this matter? For as his share is who goes down into the battle, so shall his share be who stays by the baggage. They shall share alike.` 
025 And he made it a statute and a rule for Israel from that day forward to this day. 
026 When David came to Ziklag, he sent part of the spoil to his friends, the elders of Judah, saying, `Here is a present for you from the spoil of the enemies of the LORD.` 
027 It was for those in Bethel, in Ramoth of the Negeb, in Jattir, 
028 in Aroer, in Siphmoth, in Eshtemoa, 
029 in Racal, in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, in the cities of the Kenites, 
030 in Hormah, in Bor-ashan, in Athach, 
031 in Hebron, for all the places where David and his men had roamed. 
