001 Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children; 
002 And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour. 
003 But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not be once named among you, as becometh saints; 
004 Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient: but rather giving of thanks. 
005 For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. 
006 Let no man deceive you with vain words: for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. 
007 Be not ye therefore partakers with them. 
008 For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord: walk as children of light: 
009 (For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth;) 
010 Proving what is acceptable unto the Lord. 
011 And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. 
012 For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. 
013 But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light: for whatsoever doth make manifest is light. 
014 Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. 
015 See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, 
016 Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. 
017 Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. 
018 And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled with the Spirit; 
019 Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord; 
020 Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ; 
021 Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. 
022 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord. 
023 For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church: and he is the saviour of the body. 
024 Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in every thing. 
025 Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it; 
026 That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, 
027 That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish. 
028 So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. 
029 For no man ever yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church: 
030 For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. 
031 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh. 
032 This is a great mystery: but I speak concerning Christ and the church. 
033 Nevertheless let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband. 
