001 Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right. 
002 Honour thy father and mother; which is the first commandment with promise; 
003 That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. 
004 And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. 
005 Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ; 
006 Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart; 
007 With good will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men: 
008 Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bond or free. 
009 And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing threatening: knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither is there respect of persons with him. 
010 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. 
011 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. 
012 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. 
013 Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. 
014 Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; 
015 And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; 
016 Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. 
017 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: 
018 Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints; 
019 And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel, 
020 For which I am an ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak. 
021 But that ye also may know my affairs, and how I do, Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to you all things: 
022 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that ye might know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts. 
023 Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
024 Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen. 
