001 Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus; 
002 Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house. 
003 For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house. 
004 For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God. 
005 And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after; 
006 But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end. 
007 Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his voice, 
008 Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness: 
009 When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. 
010 Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do alway err in their heart; and they have not known my ways. 
011 So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.) 
012 Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God. 
013 But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. 
014 For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end; 
015 While it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation. 
016 For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. 
017 But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness? 
018 And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not? 
019 So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief. 
