001 `On the first day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work. It is a day for you to blow the trumpets, 
002 and you shall offer a burnt offering, for a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one bull from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish; 
003 also their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for the bull, two tenths for the ram, 
004 and one tenth for each of the seven lambs; 
005 with one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you; 
006 besides the burnt offering of the new moon, and its grain offering, and the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, and their drink offering, according to the rule for them, for a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD. 
007 `On the tenth day of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation and afflict yourselves. You shall do no work, 
008 but you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD, a pleasing aroma: one bull from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old: see that they are without blemish. 
009 And their grain offering shall be of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for the bull, two tenths for the one ram, 
010 a tenth for each of the seven lambs: 
011 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the sin offering of atonement, and the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, and their drink offerings. 
012 `On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work, and you shall keep a feast to the LORD seven days. 
013 And you shall offer a burnt offering, a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD, thirteen bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish; 
014 and their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, two tenths for each of the two rams, 
015 and a tenth for each of the fourteen lambs; 
016 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering. 
017 `On the second day twelve bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish, 
018 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities; 
019 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, and their drink offerings. 
020 `On the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish, 
021 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities; 
022 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering. 
023 `On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish, 
024 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities; 
025 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering. 
026 `On the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish, 
027 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities; 
028 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering. 
029 `On the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish, 
030 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities; 
031 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offerings. 
032 `On the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish, 
033 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities; 
034 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering. 
035 `On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly. You shall not do any ordinary work, 
036 but you shall offer a burnt offering, a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish, 
037 and the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities; 
038 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering. 
039 `These you shall offer to the LORD at your appointed feasts, in addition to your vow offerings and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your grain offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.` 
040 So Moses told the people of Israel everything just as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
