001 You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus, 
002 and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. 
003 Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 
004 No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him. 
005 An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. 
006 It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops. 
007 Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything. 
008 Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as preached in my gospel, 
009 for which I am suffering, bound with chains as a criminal. But the word of God is not bound! 
010 Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. 
011 The saying is trustworthy, for: If we have died with him, we will also live with him; 
012 if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he also will deny us; 
013 if we are faithless, he remains faithful- for he cannot deny himself. 
014 Remind them of these things, and charge them before God not to quarrel about words, which does no good, but only ruins the hearers. 
015 Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth. 
016 But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, 
017 and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus, 
018 who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are upsetting the faith of some. 
019 But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: `The Lord knows those who are his,` and, `Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.` 
020 Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable. 
021 Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. 
022 So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. 
023 Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels. 
024 And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, 
025 correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth, 
026 and they may escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will. 
