001 And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. 
002 And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind? 
003 Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. 
004 I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. 
005 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 
006 When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay, 
007 And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing. 
008 The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? 
009 Some said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he. 
010 Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened? 
011 He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight. 
012 Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not. 
013 They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind. 
014 And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 
015 Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see. 
016 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them. 
017 They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet. 
018 But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight. 
019 And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see? 
020 His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind: 
021 But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself. 
022 These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. 
023 Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him. 
024 Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner. 
025 He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see. 
026 Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes? 
027 He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his disciples? 
028 Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses' disciples. 
029 We know that God spake unto Moses: as for this fellow, we know not from whence he is. 
030 The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes. 
031 Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth. 
032 Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. 
033 If this man were not of God, he could do nothing. 
034 They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. 
035 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 
036 He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? 
037 And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. 
038 And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. 
039 And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind. 
040 And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also? 
041 Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth. 
