001 After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him. 
002 Now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand. 
003 His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest. 
004 For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world. 
005 For neither did his brethren believe in him. 
006 Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway ready. 
007 The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil. 
008 Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast: for my time is not yet full come. 
009 When he had said these words unto them, he abode still in Galilee. 
010 But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret. 
011 Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? 
012 And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him: for some said, He is a good man: others said, Nay; but he deceiveth the people. 
013 Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews. 
014 Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught. 
015 And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned? 
016 Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. 
017 If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 
018 He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. 
019 Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me? 
020 The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee? 
021 Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel. 
022 Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man. 
023 If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day? 
024 Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment. 
025 Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill? 
026 But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ? 
027 Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is. 
028 Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not. 
029 But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me. 
030 Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come. 
031 And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done? 
032 The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him. 
033 Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto him that sent me. 
034 Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come. 
035 Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles? 
036 What manner of saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come? 
037 In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink. 
038 He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. 
039 (But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that Jesus was not yet glorified.) 
040 Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the Prophet. 
041 Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee? 
042 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was? 
043 So there was a division among the people because of him. 
044 And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on him. 
045 Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him? 
046 The officers answered, Never man spake like this man. 
047 Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived? 
048 Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him? 
049 But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed. 
050 Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them,) 
051 Doth our law judge any man, before it hear him, and know what he doeth? 
052 They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet. 
053 And every man went unto his own house. 
