001 What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? 
002 God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? 
003 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? 
004 Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. 
005 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection: 
006 Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. 
007 For he that is dead is freed from sin. 
008 Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him: 
009 Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him. 
010 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. 
011 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
012 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof. 
013 Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. 
014 For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace. 
015 What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid. 
016 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness? 
017 But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you. 
018 Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. 
019 I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness. 
020 For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness. 
021 What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death. 
022 But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life. 
023 For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
