001 I do fully testify, then, before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is about to judge living and dead at his manifestation and his reign --  
002 preach the word; be earnest in season, out of season, convict, rebuke, exhort, in all long-suffering and teaching,  
003 for there shall be a season when the sound teaching they will not suffer, but according to their own desires to themselves they shall heap up teachers -- itching in the hearing,  
004 and indeed, from the truth the hearing they shall turn away, and to the fables they shall be turned aside.  
005 And thou -- watch in all things; suffer evil; do the work of one proclaiming good news; of thy ministration make full assurance,  
006 for I am already being poured out, and the time of my release hath arrived;  
007 the good strife I have striven, the course I have finished, the faith I have kept,  
008 henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of the righteousness that the Lord -- the Righteous Judge -- shall give to me in that day, and not only to me, but also to all those loving his manifestation.  
009 Be diligent to come unto me quickly,  
010 for Demas forsook me, having loved the present age, and went on to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia,  
011 Lukas only is with me; Markus having taken, bring with thyself, for he is profitable to me for ministration;  
012 and Tychicus I sent to Ephesus;  
013 the cloak that I left in Troas with Carpus, coming, bring thou and the books -- especially the parchments.  
014 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil; may the Lord repay to him according to his works,  
015 of whom also do thou beware, for greatly hath he stood against our words;  
016 in my first defence no one stood with me, but all forsook me, (may it not be reckoned to them!)  
017 and the Lord stood by me, and did strengthen me, that through me the preaching might be fully assured, and all the nations might hear, and I was freed out of the mouth of a lion,  
018 and the Lord shall free me from every evil work, and shall save `me' -- to his heavenly kingdom; to whom `is' the glory to the ages of the ages! Amen. 
019 Salute Prisca and Aquilas, and Onesiphorus' household;  
020 Erastus did remain in Corinth, and Trophimus I left in Miletus infirm;  
021 be diligent to come before winter. Salute thee doth Eubulus, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.  
022 The Lord Jesus Christ `is' with thy spirit; the grace `is' with you! Amen. 
