001 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, for many false prophets have gone out into the world. 
002 By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God, 
003 and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the antichrist, which you heard was coming and now is in the world already. 
004 Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. 
005 They are from the world; therefore they speak from the world, and the world listens to them. 
006 We are from God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error. 
007 Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. 
008 Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. 
009 In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. 
010 In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. 
011 Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. 
012 No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. 
013 By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit. 
014 And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. 
015 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. 
016 So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. 
017 By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is so also are we in this world. 
018 There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. 
019 We love because he first loved us. 
020 If anyone says, `I love God,` and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. 
021 And this commandment we have from him: whoever loves God must also love his brother. 
