001 And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and a spokesman, one Tertullus. They laid before the governor their case against Paul. 
002 And when he had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: `Since through you we enjoy much peace, and since by your foresight, most excellent Felix, reforms are being made for this nation, 
003 in every way and everywhere we accept this with all gratitude. 
004 But, to detain you no further, I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly. 
005 For we have found this man a plague, one who stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world and is a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. 
006 He even tried to profane the temple, but we seized him. 
007 null 
008 By examining him yourself you will be able to find out from him about everything of which we accuse him.` 
009 The Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that all these things were so. 
010 And when the governor had nodded to him to speak, Paul replied: `Knowing that for many years you have been a judge over this nation, I cheerfully make my defense. 
011 You can verify that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem, 
012 and they did not find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the temple or in the synagogues or in the city. 
013 Neither can they prove to you what they now bring up against me. 
014 But this I confess to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets, 
015 having a hope in God, which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust. 
016 So I always take pains to have a clear conscience toward both God and man. 
017 Now after several years I came to bring alms to my nation and to present offerings. 
018 While I was doing this, they found me purified in the temple, without any crowd or tumult. But some Jews from Asia- 
019 they ought to be here before you and to make an accusation, should they have anything against me. 
020 Or else let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the council, 
021 other than this one thing that I cried out while standing among them: 'It is with respect to the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you this day.'` 
022 But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the Way, put them off, saying, `When Lysias the tribune comes down, I will decide your case.` 
023 Then he gave orders to the centurion that he should be kept in custody but have some liberty, and that none of his friends should be prevented from attending to his needs. 
024 After some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus. 
025 And as he reasoned about righteousness and self-control and the coming judgment, Felix was alarmed and said, `Go away for the present. When I get an opportunity I will summon you.` 
026 At the same time he hoped that money would be given him by Paul. So he sent for him often and conversed with him. 
027 When two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus. And desiring to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul in prison. 
