001 But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest 
002 and asked him for letters to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. 
003 Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. 
004 And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, `Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?` 
005 And he said, `Who are you, Lord?` And he said, `I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. 
006 But rise and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do.` 
007 The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one. 
008 Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. So they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. 
009 And for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank. 
010 Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, `Ananias.` And he said, `Here I am, Lord.` 
011 And the Lord said to him, `Rise and go to the street called Straight, and at the house of Judas look for a man of Tarsus named Saul, for behold, he is praying, 
012 and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he might regain his sight.` 
013 But Ananias answered, `Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he has done to your saints at Jerusalem. 
014 And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your name.` 
015 But the Lord said to him, `Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. 
016 For I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name.` 
017 So Ananias departed and entered the house. And laying his hands on him he said, `Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road by which you came has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.` 
018 And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he rose and was baptized; 
019 and taking food, he was strengthened. For some days he was with the disciples at Damascus. 
020 And immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying, `He is the Son of God.` 
021 And all who heard him were amazed and said, `Is not this the man who made havoc in Jerusalem of those who called upon this name? And has he not come here for this purpose, to bring them bound before the chief priests?` 
022 But Saul increased all the more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived in Damascus by proving that Jesus was the Christ. 
023 When many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him, 
024 but their plot became known to Saul. They were watching the gates day and night in order to kill him, 
025 but his disciples took him by night and let him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket. 
026 And when he had come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples. And they were all afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple. 
027 But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles and declared to them how on the road he had seen the Lord, who spoke to him, and how at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of Jesus. 
028 So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord. 
029 And he spoke and disputed against the Hellenists. But they were seeking to kill him. 
030 And when the brothers learned this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus. 
031 So the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace and was being built up. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied. 
032 Now as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda. 
033 There he found a man named Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed. 
034 And Peter said to him, `Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; rise and make your bed.` And immediately he rose. 
035 And all the residents of Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord. 
036 Now there was in Joppa a disciple named Tabitha, which, translated, means Dorcas. She was full of good works and acts of charity. 
037 In those days she became ill and died, and when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room. 
038 Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, `Please come to us without delay.` 
039 So Peter rose and went with them. And when he arrived, they took him to the upper room. All the widows stood beside him weeping and showing tunics and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with them. 
040 But Peter put them all outside, and knelt down and prayed; and turning to the body he said, `Tabitha, arise.` And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up. 
041 And he gave her his hand and raised her up. Then calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive. 
042 And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. 
043 And he stayed in Joppa for many days with one Simon, a tanner. 
