001 But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property, 
002 and with his wife's knowledge he kept back for himself some of the proceeds and brought only a part of it and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
003 But Peter said, `Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? 
004 While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.` 
005 When Ananias heard these words, he fell down and breathed his last. And great fear came upon all who heard of it. 
006 The young men rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him. 
007 After an interval of about three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. 
008 And Peter said to her, `Tell me whether you sold the land for so much.` And she said, `Yes, for so much.` 
009 But Peter said to her, `How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.` 
010 Immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last. When the young men came in they found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. 
011 And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard of these things. 
012 Now many signs and wonders were regularly done among the people by the hands of the apostles. And they were all together in Solomon's Portico. 
013 None of the rest dared join them, but the people held them in high esteem. 
014 And more than ever believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women, 
015 so that they even carried out the sick into the streets and laid them on cots and mats, that as Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on some of them. 
016 The people also gathered from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all healed. 
017 But the high priest rose up, and all who were with him (that is, the party of the Sadducees), and filled with jealousy 
018 they arrested the apostles and put them in the public prison. 
019 But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out, and said, 
020 `Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this Life.` 
021 And when they heard this, they entered the temple at daybreak and began to teach. Now when the high priest came, and those who were with him, they called together the council and all the senate of Israel and sent to the prison to have them brought. 
022 But when the officers came, they did not find them in the prison, so they returned and reported, 
023 `We found the prison securely locked and the guards standing at the doors, but when we opened them we found no one inside.` 
024 Now when the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were greatly perplexed about them, wondering what this would come to. 
025 And someone came and told them, `Look! The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.` 
026 Then the captain with the officers went and brought them, but not by force, for they were afraid of being stoned by the people. 
027 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest questioned them, 
028 saying, `We strictly charged you not to teach in this name, yet here you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring this man's blood upon us.` 
029 But Peter and the apostles answered, `We must obey God rather than men. 
030 The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree. 
031 God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. 
032 And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.` 
033 When they heard this, they were enraged and wanted to kill them. 
034 But a Pharisee in the council named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law held in honor by all the people, stood up and gave orders to put the men outside for a little while. 
035 And he said to them, `Men of Israel, take care what you are about to do with these men. 
036 For before these days Theudas rose up, claiming to be somebody, and a number of men, about four hundred, joined him. He was killed, and all who followed him were dispersed and came to nothing. 
037 After him Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away some of the people after him. He too perished, and all who followed him were scattered. 
038 So in the present case I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan or this undertaking is of man, it will fail; 
039 but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You might even be found opposing God!` So they took his advice, 
040 and when they had called in the apostles, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. 
041 Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name. 
042 And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. 
