001 `Bezalel and Oholiab and every craftsman in whom the LORD has put skill and intelligence to know how to do any work in the construction of the sanctuary shall work in accordance with all that the LORD has commanded.` 
002 And Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and every craftsman in whose mind the LORD had put skill, everyone whose heart stirred him up to come to do the work. 
003 And they received from Moses all the contribution that the people of Israel had brought for doing the work on the sanctuary. They still kept bringing him freewill offerings every morning, 
004 so that all the craftsmen who were doing every sort of task on the sanctuary came, each from the task that he was doing, 
005 and said to Moses, `The people bring much more than enough for doing the work that the LORD has commanded us to do.` 
006 So Moses gave command, and word was proclaimed throughout the camp, `Let no man or woman do anything more for the contribution for the sanctuary.` So the people were restrained from bringing, 
007 for the material they had was sufficient to do all the work, and more. 
008 And all the craftsmen among the workmen made the tabernacle with ten curtains. They were made of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet yarns, with cherubim skillfully worked. 
009 The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. All the curtains were the same size. 
010 He coupled five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he coupled to one another. 
011 He made loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain of the first set. Likewise he made them on the edge of the outermost curtain of the second set. 
012 He made fifty loops on the one curtain, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set. The loops were opposite one another. 
013 And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains one to the other with clasps. So the tabernacle was a single whole. 
014 He also made curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle. He made eleven curtains. 
015 The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. The eleven curtains were the same size. 
016 He coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves. 
017 And he made fifty loops on the edge of the outermost curtain of the one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the other connecting curtain. 
018 And he made fifty clasps of bronze to couple the tent together that it might be a single whole. 
019 And he made for the tent a covering of tanned rams' skins and goatskins. 
020 Then he made the upright frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood. 
021 Ten cubits was the length of a frame, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each frame. 
022 Each frame had two tenons for fitting together. He did this for all the frames of the tabernacle. 
023 The frames for the tabernacle he made thus: twenty frames for the south side. 
024 And he made forty bases of silver under the twenty frames, two bases under one frame for its two tenons, and two bases under the next frame for its two tenons. 
025 For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty frames 
026 and their forty bases of silver, two bases under one frame and two bases under the next frame. 
027 For the rear of the tabernacle westward he made six frames. 
028 He made two frames for corners of the tabernacle in the rear. 
029 And they were separate beneath but joined at the top, at the first ring. He made two of them this way for the two corners. 
030 There were eight frames with their bases of silver: sixteen bases, under every frame two bases. 
031 He made bars of acacia wood, five for the frames of the one side of the tabernacle, 
032 and five bars for the frames of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the tabernacle at the rear westward. 
033 And he made the middle bar to run from end to end halfway up the frames. 
034 And he overlaid the frames with gold, and made their rings of gold for holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold. 
035 He made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen; with cherubim skillfully worked into it he made it. 
036 And for it he made four pillars of acacia and overlaid them with gold. Their hooks were of gold, and he cast for them four bases of silver. 
037 He also made a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, embroidered with needlework, 
038 and its five pillars with their hooks. He overlaid their capitals, and their fillets were of gold, but their five bases were of bronze. 
