001 And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was there a man having the hand withered,  
002 and they were watching him, whether on the sabbaths he will heal him, that they might accuse him.  
003 And he saith to the man having the hand withered, `Rise up in the midst.'  
004 And he saith to them, `Is it lawful on the sabbaths to do good, or to do evil? life to save, or to kill?' but they were silent.  
005 And having looked round upon them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their heart, he saith to the man, `Stretch forth thy hand;' and he stretched forth, and his hand was restored whole as the other;  
006 and the Pharisees having gone forth, immediately, with the Herodians, were taking counsel against him how they might destroy him.  
007 And Jesus withdrew with his disciples unto the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea,  
008 and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea and beyond the Jordan; and they about Tyre and Sidon -- a great multitude -- having heard how great things he was doing, came unto him.  
009 And he said to his disciples that a little boat may wait on him, because of the multitude, that they may not press upon him,  
010 for he did heal many, so that they threw themselves on him, in order to touch him -- as many as had plagues;  
011 and the unclean spirits, when they were seeing him, were falling down before him, and were crying, saying -- `Thou art the Son of God;'  
012 and many times he was charging them that they might not make him manifest.  
013 And he goeth up to the mountain, and doth call near whom he willed, and they went away to him;  
014 and he appointed twelve, that they may be with him, and that he may send them forth to preach,  
015 and to have power to heal the sicknesses, and to cast out the demons.  
016 And he put on Simon the name Peter;  
017 and James of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and he put on them names -- Boanerges, that is, `Sons of thunder;'  
018 and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Cananite,  
019 and Judas Iscariot, who did also deliver him up; and they come into a house.  
020 And come together again doth a multitude, so that they are not able even to eat bread;  
021 and his friends having heard, went forth to lay hold on him, for they said that he was beside himself,  
022 and the scribes who `are' from Jerusalem having come down, said -- `He hath Beelzeboul,' and -- `By the ruler of the demons he doth cast out the demons.' 
023 And, having called them near, in similes he said to them, `How is the Adversary able to cast out the Adversary?  
024 and if a kingdom against itself be divided, that kingdom cannot be made to stand;  
025 and if a house against itself be divided, that house cannot be made to stand;  
026 and if the Adversary did rise against himself, and hath been divided, he cannot be made to stand, but hath an end.  
027 `No one is able the vessels of the strong man -- having entered into his house -- to spoil, if first he may not bind the strong man, and then his house he will spoil.  
028 `Verily I say to you, that all the sins shall be forgiven to the sons of men, and evil speakings with which they might speak evil,  
029 but whoever may speak evil in regard to the Holy Spirit hath not forgiveness -- to the age, but is in danger of age-during judgment;'  
030 because they said, `He hath an unclean spirit.'  
031 Then come do his brethren and mother, and standing without, they sent unto him, calling him,  
032 and a multitude was sitting about him, and they said to him, `Lo, thy mother and thy brethren without do seek thee.'  
033 And he answered them, saying, `Who is my mother, or my brethren?'  
034 And having looked round in a circle to those sitting about him, he saith, `Lo, my mother and my brethren!  
035 for whoever may do the will of God, he is my brother, and my sister, and mother.'  
