001 And again he entered into Capernaum, after `some' days, and it was heard that he is in the house, 
002 and immediately many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door, and he was speaking to them the word.  
003 And they come unto him, bringing a paralytic, borne by four,  
004 and not being able to come near to him because of the multitude, they uncovered the roof where he was, and, having broken `it' up, they let down the couch on which the paralytic was lying, 
005 and Jesus having seen their faith, saith to the paralytic, `Child, thy sins have been forgiven thee.'  
006 And there were certain of the scribes there sitting, and reasoning in their hearts,  
007 `Why doth this one thus speak evil words? who is able to forgive sins except one -- God?'  
008 And immediately Jesus, having known in his spirit that they thus reason in themselves, said to them, `Why these things reason ye in your hearts?  
009 which is easier, to say to the paralytic, The sins have been forgiven to thee? or to say, Rise, and take up thy couch, and walk?  
010 `And, that ye may know that the Son of Man hath authority on the earth to forgive sins -- (he saith to the paralytic) --  
011 I say to thee, Rise, and take up thy couch, and go away to thy house;'  
012 and he rose immediately, and having taken up the couch, he went forth before all, so that all were astonished, and do glorify God, saying -- `Never thus did we see.'  
013 And he went forth again by the sea, and all the multitude was coming unto him, and he was teaching them,  
014 and passing by, he saw Levi of Alpheus sitting at the tax-office, and saith to him, `Be following me,' and he, having risen, did follow him.  
015 And it came to pass, in his reclining (at meat) in his house, that many tax-gatherers and sinners were reclining (at meat) with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many, and they followed him.  
016 And the scribes and the Pharisees, having seen him eating with the tax-gatherers and sinners, said to his disciples, `Why -- that with the tax-gatherers and sinners he doth eat and drink?'  
017 And Jesus, having heard, saith to them, `They who are strong have no need of a physician, but they who are ill; I came not to call righteous men, but sinners to reformation.'  
018 And the disciples of John and those of the Pharisees were fasting, and they come and say to him, `Wherefore do the disciples of John and those of the Pharisees fast, and thy disciples do not fast?'  
019 And Jesus said to them, `Are the sons of the bride-chamber able, while the bridegroom is with them, to fast? so long time as they have the bridegroom with them they are not able to fast;  
020 but days shall come when the bridegroom may be taken from them, and then they shall fast -- in those days.  
021 `And no one a patch of undressed cloth doth sew on an old garment, and if not -- the new filling it up doth take from the old and the rent doth become worse;  
022 and no one doth put new wine into old skins, and if not -- the new wine doth burst the skins, and the wine is poured out, and the skins will be destroyed; but new wine into new skins is to be put.'  
023 And it came to pass -- he is going along on the sabbaths through the corn-fields -- and his disciples began to make a way, plucking the ears,  
024 and the Pharisees said to him, `Lo, why do they on the sabbaths that which is not lawful?'  
025 And he said to them, `Did ye never read what David did, when he had need and was hungry, he and those with him?  
026 how he went into the house of God, (at `Abiathar the chief priest,') and the loaves of the presentation did eat, which it is not lawful to eat, except to the priests, and he gave also to those who were with him?'  
027 And he said to them, `The sabbath for man was made, not man for the sabbath,  
028 so that the son of man is lord also of the sabbath.'  
