001 And immediately, in the morning, the chief priests having made a consultation, with the elders, and scribes, and the whole sanhedrim, having bound Jesus, did lead away, and delivered `him' to Pilate; 
002 and Pilate questioned him, `Art thou the king of the Jews?' and he answering said to him, `Thou dost say `it'.' 
003 And the chief priests were accusing him of many things, `but he answered nothing.' 
004 And Pilate again questioned him, saying, `Thou dost not answer anything! lo, how many things they do testify against thee!'  
005 and Jesus did no more answer anything, so that Pilate wondered.  
006 And at every feast he was releasing to them one prisoner, whomsoever they were asking;  
007 and there was `one' named Barabbas, bound with those making insurrection with him, who had in the insurrection committed murder. 
008 And the multitude having cried out, began to ask for themselves as he was always doing to them,  
009 and Pilate answered them, saying, `Will ye `that' I shall release to you the king of the Jews?' 
010 for he knew that because of envy the chief priests had delivered him up;  
011 and the chief priests did move the multitude, that he might rather release Barabbas to them.  
012 And Pilate answering, again said to them, `What, then, will ye `that' I shall do to him whom ye call king of the Jews?' 
013 and they again cried out, `Crucify him.'  
014 And Pilate said to them, `Why -- what evil did he?' and they cried out the more vehemently, `Crucify him;'  
015 and Pilate, wishing to content the multitude, released to them Barabbas, and delivered up Jesus -- having scourged `him' -- that he might be crucified. 
016 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, which is Praetorium, and call together the whole band,  
017 and clothe him with purple, and having plaited a crown of thorns, they put `it' on him, 
018 and began to salute him, `Hail, King of the Jews.'  
019 And they were smiting him on the head with a reed, and were spitting on him, and having bent the knee, were bowing to him,  
020 and when they `had' mocked him, they took the purple from off him, and clothed him in his own garments, and they led him forth, that they may crucify him. 
021 And they impress a certain one passing by -- Simon, a Cyrenian, coming from the field, the father of Alexander and Rufus -- that he may bear his cross,  
022 and they bring him to the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, `Place of a skull;'  
023 and they were giving him to drink wine mingled with myrrh, and he did not receive.  
024 And having crucified him, they were dividing his garments, casting a lot upon them, what each may take;  
025 and it was the third hour, and they crucified him;  
026 and the inscription of his accusation was written above -- `The King of the Jews.'  
027 And with him they crucify two robbers, one on the right hand, and one on his left,  
028 and the Writing was fulfilled that is saying, `And with lawless ones he was numbered.'  
029 And those passing by were speaking evil of him, shaking their heads, and saying, `Ah, the thrower down of the sanctuary, and in three days the builder!  
030 save thyself, and come down from the cross!'  
031 And in like manner also the chief priests, mocking with one another, with the scribes, said, `Others he saved; himself he is not able to save.  
032 The Christ! the king of Israel -- let him come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe;' and those crucified with him were reproaching him.  
033 And the sixth hour having come, darkness came over the whole land till the ninth hour,  
034 and at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a great voice, saying, `Eloi, Eloi, lamma sabachthani?' which is, being interpreted, `My God, my God, why didst Thou forsake me?'  
035 And certain of those standing by, having heard, said, `Lo, Elijah he doth call;'  
036 and one having run, and having filled a spunge with vinegar, having put `it' also on a reed, was giving him to drink, saying, `Let alone, let us see if Elijah doth come to take him down.' 
037 And Jesus having uttered a loud cry, yielded the spirit,  
038 and the veil of the sanctuary was rent in two, from top to bottom,  
039 and the centurion who was standing over-against him, having seen that, having so cried out, he yielded the spirit, said, `Truly this man was Son of God.'  
040 And there were also women afar off beholding, among whom was also Mary the Magdalene, and Mary of James the less, and of Joses, and Salome,  
041 (who also, when he was in Galilee, were following him, and were ministering to him,) and many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.  
042 And now evening having come, seeing it was the preparation, that is, the fore-sabbath,  
043 Joseph of Arimathea, an honourable counsellor, who also himself was waiting for the reign of God, came, boldly entered in unto Pilate, and asked the body of Jesus.  
044 And Pilate wondered if he were already dead, and having called near the centurion, did question him if he were long dead,  
045 and having known `it' from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph. 
046 And he, having brought fine linen, and having taken him down, wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre that had been hewn out of a rock, and he rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre,  
047 and Mary the Magdalene, and Mary of Joses, were beholding where he is laid.  
