001 Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven. 
002 Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving; 
003 Withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds: 
004 That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak. 
005 Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time. 
006 Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man. 
007 All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you, who is a beloved brother, and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the Lord: 
008 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know your estate, and comfort your hearts; 
009 With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things which are done here. 
010 Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and Marcus, sister's son to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received commandments: if he come unto you, receive him;) 
011 And Jesus, which is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort unto me. 
012 Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. 
013 For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea and them in Hierapolis. 
014 Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you. 
015 Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church which is in his house. 
016 And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. 
017 And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it. 
018 The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen. 
