001 If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. 
002 Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. 
003 For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. 
004 When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. 
005 Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry: 
006 For which things' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience: 
007 In the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them. 
008 But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. 
009 Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds; 
010 And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him: 
011 Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all. 
012 Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering; 
013 Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. 
014 And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. 
015 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful. 
016 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. 
017 And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. 
018 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord. 
019 Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. 
020 Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. 
021 Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. 
022 Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh; not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing God: 
023 And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men; 
024 Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ. 
025 But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done: and there is no respect of persons. 
