001 Now these are the last words of David: The oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel: 
002 `The Spirit of the LORD speaks by me; his word is on my tongue. 
003 The God of Israel has spoken; the Rock of Israel has said to me: When one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God, 
004 he dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning, like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. 
005 For does not my house stand so with God? For he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things and secure. For will he not cause to prosper all my help and my desire? 
006 But worthless men are all like thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand; 
007 but the man who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed with fire.` 
008 These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-basshebeth a Tahchemonite; he was chief of the three. He wielded his spear against eight hundred whom he killed at one time. 
009 And next to him among the three mighty men was Eleazar the son of Dodo, son of Ahohi. He was with David when they defied the Philistines who were gathered there for battle, and the men of Israel withdrew. 
010 He rose and struck down the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clung to the sword. And the LORD brought about a great victory that day, and the men returned after him only to strip the slain. 
011 And next to him was Shammah, the son of Agee the Hararite. The Philistines gathered together at Lehi, where there was a plot of ground full of lentils, and the men fled from the Philistines. 
012 But he took his stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and struck down the Philistines, and the LORD worked a great victory. 
013 And three of the thirty chief men went down and came about harvest time to David at the cave of Adullam, when a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim. 
014 David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem. 
015 And David said longingly, `Oh, that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate!` 
016 Then the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that was by the gate and carried and brought it to David. But he would not drink of it. He poured it out to the LORD 
017 and said, `Far be it from me, O LORD, that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of the men who went at the risk of their lives?` Therefore he would not drink it. These things the three mighty men did. 
018 Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the thirty. And he wielded his spear against three hundred men and killed them and won a name beside the three. 
019 He was the most renowned of the thirty and became their commander, but he did not attain to the three. 
020 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was a valiant man of Kabzeel, a doer of great deeds. He struck down two ariels of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen. 
021 And he struck down an Egyptian, a handsome man. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but Benaiah went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand and killed him with his own spear. 
022 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and won a name beside the three mighty men. 
023 He was renowned among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his bodyguard. 
024 Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 
025 Shammah of Harod, Elika of Harod, 
026 Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh of Tekoa, 
027 Abiezer of Anathoth, Mebunnai the Hushathite, 
028 Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai of Netophah, 
029 Heleb the son of Baanah of Netophah, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the people of Benjamin, 
030 Benaiah of Pirathon, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash, 
031 Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth of Bahurim, 
032 Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan, 
033 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite, 
034 Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai of Maacah, Eliam the son of Ahithophel of Gilo, 
035 Hezro of Carmel, Paarai the Arbite, 
036 Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite, 
037 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai of Beeroth, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
038 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
039 Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all. 
