001 The sons of Judah; Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal. 
002 And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath; and Jahath begat Ahumai, and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites. 
003 And these were of the father of Etam; Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi: 
004 And Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem. 
005 And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah. 
006 And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah. 
007 And the sons of Helah were, Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan. 
008 And Coz begat Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum. 
009 And Jabez was more honourable than his brethren: and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bare him with sorrow. 
010 And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me! And God granted him that which he requested. 
011 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father of Eshton. 
012 And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Irnahash. These are the men of Rechah. 
013 And the sons of Kenaz; Othniel, and Seraiah: and the sons of Othniel; Hathath. 
014 And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab, the father of the valley of Charashim; for they were craftsmen. 
015 And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh; Iru, Elah, and Naam: and the sons of Elah, even Kenaz. 
016 And the sons of Jehaleleel; Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel. 
017 And the sons of Ezra were, Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon: and she bare Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 
018 And his wife Jehudijah bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, which Mered took. 
019 And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham, the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite. 
020 And the sons of Shimon were, Amnon, and Rinnah, Benhanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi were, Zoheth, and Benzoheth. 
021 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were, Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea, 
022 And Jokim, and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the dominion in Moab, and Jashubilehem. And these are ancient things. 
023 These were the potters, and those that dwelt among plants and hedges: there they dwelt with the king for his work. 
024 The sons of Simeon were, Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Shaul: 
025 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son. 
026 And the sons of Mishma; Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimei his son. 
027 And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brethren had not many children, neither did all their family multiply, like to the children of Judah. 
028 And they dwelt at Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual, 
029 And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad, 
030 And at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag, 
031 And at Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusim, and at Bethbirei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities unto the reign of David. 
032 And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities: 
033 And all their villages that were round about the same cities, unto Baal. These were their habitations, and their genealogy. 
034 And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah, 
035 And Joel, and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel, 
036 And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah, 
037 And Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah; 
038 These mentioned by their names were princes in their families: and the house of their fathers increased greatly. 
039 And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks. 
040 And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for they of Ham had dwelt there of old. 
041 And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and smote their tents, and the habitations that were found there, and destroyed them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in their rooms: because there was pasture there for their flocks. 
042 And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi. 
043 And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped, and dwelt there unto this day. 
