001 Now after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and her towns out of the hand of the Philistines. 
002 And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became David's servants, and brought gifts. 
003 And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went to stablish his dominion by the river Euphrates. 
004 And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: David also hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them an hundred chariots. 
005 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men. 
006 Then David put garrisons in Syriadamascus; and the Syrians became David's servants, and brought gifts. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went. 
007 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
008 Likewise from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer, brought David very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass. 
009 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah; 
010 He sent Hadoram his son to king David, to inquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he had fought against Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had war with Tou;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass. 
011 Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD, with the silver and the gold that he brought from all these nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 
012 Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in the valley of salt eighteen thousand. 
013 And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became David's servants. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went. 
014 So David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgment and justice among all his people. 
015 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, recorder. 
016 And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Shavsha was scribe; 
017 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief about the king. 
