001 These are the sons of Israel; Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, 
002 Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
003 The sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah: which three were born unto him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD; and he slew him. 
004 And Tamar his daughter in law bare him Pharez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five. 
005 The sons of Pharez; Hezron, and Hamul. 
006 And the sons of Zerah; Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara: five of them in all. 
007 And the sons of Carmi; Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the thing accursed. 
008 And the sons of Ethan; Azariah. 
009 The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him; Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
010 And Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the children of Judah; 
011 And Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz, 
012 And Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse. 
013 And Jesse begat his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the third, 
014 Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
015 Ozem the sixth, David the seventh: 
016 Whose sisters were Zeruiah, and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah; Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three. 
017 And Abigail bare Amasa: and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmeelite. 
018 And Caleb the son of Hezron begat children of Azubah his wife, and of Jerioth: her sons are these; Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
019 And when Azubah was dead, Caleb took unto him Ephrath, which bare him Hur. 
020 And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezaleel. 
021 And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was threescore years old; and she bare him Segub. 
022 And Segub begat Jair, who had three and twenty cities in the land of Gilead. 
023 And he took Geshur, and Aram, with the towns of Jair, from them, with Kenath, and the towns thereof, even threescore cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir, the father of Gilead. 
024 And after that Hezron was dead in Calebephratah, then Abiah Hezron's wife bare him Ashur the father of Tekoa. 
025 And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were, Ram the firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah. 
026 Jerahmeel had also another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam. 
027 And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were, Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker. 
028 And the sons of Onam were, Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai; Nadab, and Abishur. 
029 And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bare him Ahban, and Molid. 
030 And the sons of Nadab; Seled, and Appaim: but Seled died without children. 
031 And the sons of Appaim; Ishi. And the sons of Ishi; Sheshan. And the children of Sheshan; Ahlai. 
032 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai; Jether, and Jonathan: and Jether died without children. 
033 And the sons of Jonathan; Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
034 Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha. 
035 And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; and she bare him Attai. 
036 And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad, 
037 And Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed, 
038 And Obed begat Jehu, and Jehu begat Azariah, 
039 And Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat Eleasah, 
040 And Eleasah begat Sisamai, and Sisamai begat Shallum, 
041 And Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama. 
042 Now the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were, Mesha his firstborn, which was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron. 
043 And the sons of Hebron; Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema. 
044 And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkoam: and Rekem begat Shammai. 
045 And the son of Shammai was Maon: and Maon was the father of Bethzur. 
046 And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bare Haran, and Moza, and Gazez: and Haran begat Gazez. 
047 And the sons of Jahdai; Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
048 Maachah, Caleb's concubine, bare Sheber, and Tirhanah. 
049 She bare also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea: and the daughter of Caleb was Achsa. 
050 These were the sons of Caleb the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah; Shobal the father of Kirjathjearim, 
051 Salma the father of Bethlehem, Hareph the father of Bethgader. 
052 And Shobal the father of Kirjathjearim had sons; Haroeh, and half of the Manahethites. 
053 And the families of Kirjathjearim; the Ithrites, and the Puhites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zareathites, and the Eshtaulites. 
054 The sons of Salma; Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, Ataroth, the house of Joab, and half of the Manahethites, the Zorites. 
055 And the families of the scribes which dwelt at Jabez; the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenites that came of Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab. 
