001 If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. 
002 Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. 
003 For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. 
004 When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. 
005 Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. 
006 On account of these the wrath of God is coming. 
007 In these you too once walked, when you were living in them. 
008 But now you must put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. 
009 Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices 
010 and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. 
011 Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all, and in all. 
012 Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, 
013 bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. 
014 And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. 
015 And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. 
016 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. 
017 And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. 
018 Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 
019 Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them. 
020 Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. 
021 Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. 
022 Slaves, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. 
023 Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, 
024 knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. 
025 For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. 
