001 Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. 
002 And when Jacob saw them he said, `This is God's camp!` So he called the name of that place Mahanaim. 
003 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother in the land of Seir, the country of Edom, 
004 instructing them, `Thus you shall say to my lord Esau: Thus says your servant Jacob, 'I have sojourned with Laban and stayed until now. 
005 I have oxen, donkeys, flocks, male servants, and female servants. I have sent to tell my lord, in order that I may find favor in your sight.'` 
006 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, `We came to your brother Esau, and he is coming to meet you, and there are four hundred men with him.` 
007 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. He divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and herds and camels, into two camps, 
008 thinking, `If Esau comes to the one camp and attacks it, then the camp that is left will escape.` 
009 And Jacob said, `O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, O LORD who said to me, 'Return to your country and to your kindred, that I may do you good,' 
010 I am not worthy of the least of all the deeds of steadfast love and all the faithfulness that you have shown to your servant, for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan, and now I have become two camps. 
011 Please deliver me from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, that he may come and attack me, the mothers with the children. 
012 But you said, 'I will surely do you good, and make your offspring as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.'` 
013 So he stayed there that night, and from what he had with him he took a present for his brother Esau, 
014 two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams, 
015 thirty milking camels and their calves, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten male donkeys. 
016 These he handed over to his servants, every drove by itself, and said to his servants, `Pass on ahead of me and put a space between drove and drove.` 
017 He instructed the first, `When Esau my brother meets you and asks you, 'To whom do you belong? Where are you going? And whose are these ahead of you?' 
018 then you shall say, 'They belong to your servant Jacob. They are a present sent to my lord Esau. And moreover, he is behind us.'` 
019 He likewise instructed the second and the third and all who followed the droves, `You shall say the same thing to Esau when you find him, 
020 and you shall say, 'Moreover, your servant Jacob is behind us.'`For he thought, `I may appease him with the present that goes ahead of me, and afterward I shall see his face. Perhaps he will accept me.` 
021 So the present passed on ahead of him, and he himself stayed that night in the camp. 
022 The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabbok. 
023 He took them and sent them across the stream, and everything else that he had. 
024 And Jacob was left alone. And a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day. 
025 When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him. 
026 Then he said, `Let me go, for the day has broken.` But Jacob said, `I will not let you go unless you bless me.` 
027 And he said to him, `What is your name?` And he said, `Jacob.` 
028 Then he said, `Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men, and have prevailed.` 
029 Then Jacob asked him, `Please tell me your name.` But he said, `Why is it that you ask my name?` And there he blessed him. 
030 So Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, `For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered.` 
031 The sun rose upon him as he passed Penuel, limping because of his hip. 
032 Therefore to this day the people of Israel do not eat the sinew of the thigh that is on the hip socket, because he touched the socket of Jacob's hip on the sinew of the thigh. 
