001 These are the generations of Esau (that is, Edom). 
002 Esau took his wives from the Canaanites: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, Oholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite, 
003 and Basemath, Ishmael's daughter, the sister of Nebaioth. 
004 And Adah bore to Esau, Eliphaz; Basemath bore Reuel; 
005 and Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan. 
006 Then Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, his livestock, all his beasts, and all his property that he had acquired in the land of Canaan. He went into a land away from his brother Jacob. 
007 For their possessions were too great for them to dwell together. The land of their sojournings could not support them because of their livestock. 
008 So Esau settled in the hill country of Seir. ( Esau is Edom.) 
009 These are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in the hill country of Seir. 
010 These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Basemath the wife of Esau. 
011 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz. 
012 (Timna was a concubine of Eliphaz, Esau's son; she bore Amalek to Eliphaz.) These are the sons of Adah, Esau's wife. 
013 These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife. 
014 These are the sons of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: she bore to Esau Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
015 These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau. The sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau: the chiefs Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz, 
016 Korah, Gatam, and Amalek; these are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Adah. 
017 These are the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: the chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah; these are the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife. 
018 These are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: the chiefs Jeush, Jalam, and Korah; these are the chiefs born of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife. 
019 These are the sons of Esau ( that is, Edom), and these are their chiefs. 
020 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, 
021 Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir in the land of Edom. 
022 The sons of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna. 
023 These are the sons of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. 
024 These are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah; he is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, as he pastured the donkeys of Zibeon his father. 
025 These are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah. 
026 These are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran. 
027 These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan. 
028 These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
029 These are the chiefs of the Horites: the chiefs Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, 
030 Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, chief by chief in the land of Seir. 
031 These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before any king reigned over the Israelites. 
032 Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, the name of his city being Dinhabah. 
033 Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place. 
034 Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place. 
035 Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his place, the name of his city being Avith. 
036 Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place. 
037 Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth on the Euphrates reigned in his place. 
038 Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place. 
039 Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place, the name of his city being Pau; his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab. 
040 These are the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their clans and their dwelling places, by their names: the chiefs Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, 
041 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, 
042 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, 
043 Magdiel, and Iram; these are the chiefs of Edom (that is, Esau, the father of Edom), according to their dwelling places in the land of their possession. 
