001 Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, saying, `I have gotten a man with the help of the LORD.` 
002 And again, she bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, and Cain a worker of the ground. 
003 In the course of time Cain brought to the LORD an offering of the fruit of the ground, 
004 and Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. And the LORD had regard for Abel and his offering, 
005 but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very angry, and his face fell. 
006 The LORD said to Cain, `Why are you angry, and why has your face fallen? 
007 If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must rule over it.` 
008 Cain spoke to Abel his brother. And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him. 
009 Then the LORD said to Cain, `Where is Abel your brother?` He said, `I do not know; am I my brother's keeper?` 
010 And the LORD said, `What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. 
011 And now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. 
012 When you work the ground, it shall no longer yield to you its strength. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth.` 
013 Cain said to the LORD, `My punishment is greater than I can bear. 
014 Behold, you have driven me today away from the ground, and from your face I shall be hidden. I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me.` 
015 Then the LORD said to him, `Not so! If anyone kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold.` And the LORD put a mark on Cain, lest any who found him should attack him. 
016 Then Cain went away from the presence of the LORD and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden. 
017 Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. When he built a city, he called the name of the city after the name of his son, Enoch. 
018 To Enoch was born Irad, and Irad fathered Mehujael, and Mehujael fathered Methushael, and Methushael fathered Lamech. 
019 And Lamech took two wives. The name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah. 
020 Adah bore Jabal; he was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. 
021 His brother's name was Jubal; he was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe. 
022 Zillah also bore Tubal-cain; he was the forger of all instruments of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah. 
023 Lamech said to his wives: `Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; you wives of Lamech, listen to what I say: I have killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me. 
024 If Cain's revenge is sevenfold, then Lamech's is seventy-sevenfold.` 
025 And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and called his name Seth, for she said, `God has appointed for me another offspring instead of Abel, for Cain killed him.` 
026 To Seth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time people began to call upon the name of the LORD. 
