001 And at Ezra's praying, and at his making confession, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, there have been gathered unto him out of Israel an assembly very great -- men and women and children -- for the people have wept, multiplying weeping.  
002 And Shechaniah son of Jehiel, of the sons of Elam, answereth and saith to Ezra, `We -- we have trespassed against our God, and we settle strange women of the peoples of the land; and now there is hope for Israel concerning this,  
003 and now, let us make a covenant with our God, to cause all the women to go out, and that which is born of them, by the counsel of the Lord, and of those trembling at the command of our God, and according to law it is done;  
004 rise, for on thee `is' the matter, and we `are' with thee; be strong, and do.' 
005 And Ezra riseth, and causeth the heads of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel, to swear to do according to this word -- and they swear.  
006 And Ezra riseth from before the house of God, and goeth unto the chamber of Jehohanan son of Eliashib; yea, he goeth there, bread he hath not eaten, and water he hath not drunk, for he is mourning because of the trespass of the removal.  
007 And they cause a voice to pass over into Judah and Jerusalem, to all sons of the removal, to be gathered to Jerusalem,  
008 and every one who cometh not in by the third day, according to the counsel of the heads and of the elders, all his substance is devoted, and himself separated from the assembly of the removal.  
009 And gathered are all the men of Judah and Benjamin to Jerusalem by the third day, it `is' the ninth month, on the twentieth of the month, and all the people sit in the broad place of the house of God, trembling on account of the matter and of the showers. 
010 And Ezra the priest riseth, and saith unto them, `Ye -- ye have trespassed, and ye settle strange women, to add to the guilt of Israel;  
011 and, now, make confession to Jehovah, God of your fathers, and do His good pleasure, and be separated from the peoples of the land, and from the strange women.'  
012 And all the assembly answer and say `with' a great voice, `Right; according to thy word -- on us to do; 
013 but the people `are' many, and `it is' the time of showers, and there is no power to stand without, and the work `is' not for one day, nor for two, for we have multiplied to transgress in this thing. 
014 `Let, we pray thee, our heads of all the assembly stand, and all who `are' in our cities, who have settled strange wives, do come in at the times appointed, and with them the elders of city and city, and its judges, till the turning back of the fury of the wrath of our God from us, for this thing.' 
015 Only Jonathan son of Asahel, and Jahaziah son of Tikvah, stood against this, and Meshullam, and Shabbethai the Levite, helped them.  
016 And the sons of the removal do so, and Ezra the priest, `and' men, heads of the fathers, for the house of their fathers, are separated, even all of them by name, and they sit on the first day of the tenth month, to examine the matter; 
017 and they finish with all the men who have settled strange women unto the first day of the first month.  
018 And there are found of the sons of the priests that have settled strange women: of the sons of Jeshua son of Jozadak, and his brethren, Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah;  
019 and they give their hand to send out their wives, and, being guilty, a ram of the flock, for their guilt.  
020 And of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah;  
021 and of the sons of Harim: Masseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah;  
022 and of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.  
023 And of the Levites: Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah -- he `is' Kelita, -- Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer. 
024 And of the singers: Eliashib. And of the gatekeepers: Shallum, and Telem, and Uri.  
025 And of Israel: of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, and Jeziah, and Malchijah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.  
026 And of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah.  
027 And of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.  
028 And of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai.  
029 And of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, and Ramoth.  
030 And of the sons of Pahath-Moab: Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.  
031 And of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,  
032 Benjamin, Malluch, Shemariah.  
033 Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, Shimei.  
034 Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, and Uel,  
035 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhu,  
036 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,  
037 Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasau,  
038 and Bani, and Binnui, Shimei,  
039 and Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,  
040 Machnadbai, Shashai, Sharai,  
041 Azareel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,  
042 Shallum, Amariah, Joseph.  
043 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau, and Joel, Benaiah;  
044 all these have taken strange women, and there are of them women -- who adopt sons.  
