001 Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. 
002 `Honor your father and mother` (this is the first commandment with a promise), 
003 `that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.` 
004 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. 
005 Slaves, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, 
006 not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, 
007 rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man, 
008 knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or free. 
009 Masters, do the same to them, and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him. 
010 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. 
011 Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. 
012 For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. 
013 Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. 
014 Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, 
015 and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. 
016 In all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one; 
017 and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God, 
018 praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints, 
019 and also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel, 
020 for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak. 
021 So that you also may know how I am and what I am doing, Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will tell you everything. 
022 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts. 
023 Peace be to the brothers, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
024 Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible. 
