001 `And God speaketh all these words, saying,  
002 I `am' Jehovah thy God, who hath brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of a house of servants. 
003 `Thou hast no other Gods before Me.  
004 `Thou dost not make to thyself a graven image, or any likeness which `is' in the heavens above, or which `is' in the earth beneath, or which `is' in the waters under the earth. 
005 Thou dost not bow thyself to them, nor serve them: for I, Jehovah thy God, `am' a zealous God, charging iniquity of fathers on sons, on the third `generation', and on the fourth, of those hating Me, 
006 and doing kindness to thousands, of those loving Me and keeping My commands.  
007 `Thou dost not take up the name of Jehovah thy God for a vain thing, for Jehovah acquitteth not him who taketh up His name for a vain thing.  
008 `Remember the Sabbath-day to sanctify it;  
009 six days thou dost labour, and hast done all thy work,  
010 and the seventh day `is' a Sabbath to Jehovah thy God; thou dost not do any work, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, thy man-servant, and thy handmaid, and thy cattle, and thy sojourner who is within thy gates, -- 
011 for six days hath Jehovah made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that `is' in them, and resteth in the seventh day; therefore hath Jehovah blessed the Sabbath-day, and doth sanctify it. 
012 `Honour thy father and thy mother, so that thy days are prolonged on the ground which Jehovah thy God is giving to thee.  
013 `Thou dost not murder.  
014 `Thou dost not commit adultery.  
015 `Thou dost not steal.  
016 `Thou dost not answer against thy neighbour a false testimony.  
017 `Thou dost not desire the house of thy neighbour, thou dost not desire the wife of thy neighbour, or his man-servant, or his handmaid, or his ox, or his ass, or anything which `is' thy neighbour's.' 
018 And all the people are seeing the voices, and the flames, and the sound of the trumpet, and the mount smoking; and the people see, and move, and stand afar off,  
019 and say unto Moses, `Speak thou with us, and we hear, and let not God speak with us, lest we die.'  
020 And Moses saith unto the people, `Fear not, for to try you hath God come, and in order that His fear may be before your faces -- that ye sin not.'  
021 And the people stand afar off, and Moses hath drawn nigh unto the thick darkness where God `is'. 
022 And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Thus dost thou say unto the sons of Israel: Ye -- ye have seen that from the heavens I have spoken with you;  
023 ye do not make with Me gods of silver, even gods of gold ye do not make to yourselves.  
024 `An altar of earth thou dost make for Me, and thou hast sacrificed on it thy burnt-offerings and thy peace-offerings, thy flock and thy herd; in every place where I cause My name to be remembered I come in unto thee, and have blessed thee.  
025 `And if an altar of stones thou dost make to Me, thou dost not build them of hewn work; when thy tool thou hast waved over it, then thou dost pollute it;  
026 neither dost thou go up by steps on Mine altar, that thy nakedness be not revealed upon it.  
