001 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,  
002 `Speak unto the sons of Israel, and they take for Me a heave-offering; from every man whose heart impelleth him ye do take My heave-offering.  
003 `And this `is' the heave-offering which ye take from them; gold, and silver, and brass, 
004 and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and linen, and goats' `hair', 
005 and rams' skins made red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood,  
006 oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the perfume of the spices,  
007 shoham stones, and stones for setting for an ephod, and for a breastplate.  
008 `And they have made for Me a sanctuary, and I have tabernacled in their midst;  
009 according to all that which I am shewing thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all its vessels, even so ye do make `it'. 
010 `And they have made an ark of shittim wood; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height;  
011 and thou hast overlaid it `with' pure gold, within and without thou dost overlay it, and thou hast made on it a ring of gold round about. 
012 `And thou hast cast for it four rings of gold, and hast put `them' on its four feet, even two rings on its one side, and two rings on its second side; 
013 and thou hast made staves of shittim wood, and hast overlaid them `with' gold, 
014 and hast brought the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark by them,  
015 in the rings of the ark are the staves, they are not turned aside from it;  
016 and thou hast put unto the ark the testimony which I give unto thee.  
017 `And thou hast made a mercy-seat of pure gold, two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth;  
018 and thou hast made two cherubs of gold, beaten work dost thou make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat;  
019 and make thou one cherub at the end on this side, and one cherub at the end on that; at the mercy-seat ye do make the cherubs on its two ends.  
020 `And the cherubs have been spreading out wings on high, covering the mercy-seat over with their wings, and their faces `are' one towards another -- towards the mercy-seat are the faces of the cherubs. 
021 `And thou hast put the mercy-seat on the ark above, and unto the ark thou dost put the testimony which I give unto thee;  
022 and I have met with thee there, and have spoken with thee from off the mercy-seat (from between the two cherubs, which `are' on the ark of the testimony) all that which I command thee concerning the sons of Israel. 
023 `And thou hast made a table of shittim wood, two cubits its length, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height,  
024 and hast overlaid it `with' pure gold, and hast made for it a crown of gold round about, 
025 and hast made for it a border of a handbreadth round about, and hast made a crown of gold to its border round about.  
026 `And thou hast made to it four rings of gold, and hast put the rings on the four corners, which `are' to its four feet; 
027 over-against the border are the rings for places for staves to bear the table;  
028 and thou hast made the staves of shittim wood, and hast overlaid them with gold, and the table hath been borne with them;  
029 and thou hast made its dishes, and its bowls, and its covers, and its cups, with which they pour out; of pure gold thou dost make them;  
030 and thou hast put on the table bread of the presence before Me continually.  
031 `And thou hast made a candlestick of pure gold, of beaten work is the candlestick made; its base, and its branch, its calyxes, its knops, and its flowers are of the same;  
032 and six branches are coming out of its sides, three branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of the candlestick out of the second side;  
033 three calyxes made like almonds in the one branch, a knop and a flower, and three calyxes made like almonds in one branch, a knop and a flower; so for the six branches which are coming out from the candlestick.  
034 `And in the candlestick `are' four calyxes made like almonds, its knops and its flowers; 
035 and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, `are' to the six branches which are coming out of the candlestick; 
036 their knops and their branches are of the same, all of it one beaten work of pure gold;  
037 and thou hast made its seven lamps, and `one' hath caused its lights to go up, and it hath given light over-against its front. 
038 `And its snuffers and its snuff dishes `are' of pure gold; 
039 of a talent of pure gold he doth make it, with all these vessels. 
040 And see thou and do `them' by their pattern which thou art shewn in the mount. 
