001 `And thou dost make the tabernacle: ten curtains of twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet; `with' cherubs, work of a designer, thou dost make them; 
002 the length of the one curtain `is' eight and twenty by the cubit, and the breadth of the one curtain four by the cubit, one measure `is' to all the curtains; 
003 five of the curtains are joining one unto another, and five curtains are joining one to another.  
004 `And thou hast made loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain, at the end in the joining; and so thou makest in the edge of the outermost curtain, in the joining of the second.  
005 fifty loops thou dost make in the one curtain, and fifty loops thou dost make in the edge of the curtain which `is' in the joining of the second, causing the loops to take hold one unto another; 
006 and thou hast made fifty hooks of gold, and hast joined the curtains one to another by the hooks, and the tabernacle hath been one.  
007 `And thou hast made curtains of goats' `hair', for a tent over the tabernacle; thou dost make eleven curtains: 
008 the length of the one curtain `is' thirty by the cubit, and the breadth of the one curtain four by the cubit; one measure `is' to the eleven curtains; 
009 and thou hast joined the five curtains apart, and the six curtains apart, and hast doubled the six curtains over-against the front of the tent.  
010 `And thou hast made fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain, the outermost in the joining, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which is joining the second;  
011 and thou hast made fifty hooks of brass, and hast brought in the hooks into the loops, and hast joined the tent, and it hath been one.  
012 `And the superfluity in the curtains of the tent -- the half of the curtain which is superfluous -- hath spread over the hinder part of the tabernacle;  
013 and the cubit on this side, and the cubit on that, in the superfluity in the length of the curtains of the tent, is spread out over the sides of the tabernacle, on this and on that, to cover it;  
014 and thou hast made a covering for the tent, of rams' skins made red, and a covering of badgers' skins above.  
015 `And thou hast made the boards for the tabernacle, of shittim wood, standing up;  
016 ten cubits `is' the length of the board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of the one board; 
017 two handles `are' to the one board, joined one unto another; so thou dost make for all the boards of the tabernacle; 
018 and thou hast made the boards of the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side southward;  
019 and forty sockets of silver thou dost make under the twenty boards, two sockets under the one board for its two handles, and two sockets under the other board for its two handles.  
020 `And for the second side of the tabernacle, for the north side, `are' twenty boards, 
021 and their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under the one board, and two sockets under another board.  
022 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward, thou dost make six boards.  
023 And two boards thou dost make for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides.  
024 And they are pairs beneath, and together they are pairs above its head unto the one ring; so is it for them both, they are for the two corners.  
025 And they have been eight boards, and their sockets of silver `are' sixteen sockets, two sockets under the one board, and two sockets under another board. 
026 `And thou hast made bars of shittim wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,  
027 and five bars for the boards of the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle at the two sides, westward;  
028 and one hath caused the middle bar in the midst of the boards to reach from end unto end;  
029 and the boards thou dost overlay `with' gold, and their rings thou dost make of gold places for bars, and hast overlaid their bars with gold; 
030 and thou hast raised up the tabernacle according to its fashion which thou hast been shewn in the mount.  
031 `And thou hast made a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, work of a designer; he maketh it `with' cherubs; 
032 and thou hast put it on four pillars of shittim wood, overlaid `with' gold, their pegs `are' of gold, on four sockets of silver. 
033 `And thou hast put the vail under the hooks, and hast brought in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony; and the vail hath made a separation for you between the holy and the holy of holies.  
034 `And thou hast put the mercy-seat on the ark of the testimony, in the holy of holies.  
035 `And thou hast set the table at the outside of the vail, and the candlestick over-against the table on the side of the tabernacle southward, and the table thou dost put on the north side.  
036 `And thou hast made a covering for the opening of the tent, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, work of an embroiderer;  
037 and thou hast made for the covering five pillars of shittim `wood', and hast overlaid them `with' gold, their pegs `are' of gold, and thou hast cast for them five sockets of brass. 
