001 And Saul speaketh unto Jonathan his son, and unto all his servants, to put David to death,  
002 and Jonathan son of Saul delighted exceedingly in David, and Jonathan declareth to David, saying, `Saul my father is seeking to put thee to death, and, now, take heed, I pray thee, in the morning, and thou hast abode in a secret place, and been hidden,  
003 and I -- I go out, and have stood by the side of my father in the field where thou `art', and I speak of thee unto my father, and have seen what `is coming', and have declared to thee.' 
004 And Jonathan speaketh good of David unto Saul his father, and saith unto him, `Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works for thee `are' very good; 
005 yea, he putteth his life in his hand, and smiteth the Philistine, and Jehovah worketh a great salvation for all Israel; thou hast seen, and dost rejoice, and why dost thou sin against innocent blood, to put David to death for nought?'  
006 And Saul hearkeneth to the voice of Jonathan, and Saul sweareth, `Jehovah liveth -- he doth not die.'  
007 And Jonathan calleth for David, and Jonathan declareth to him all these words, and Jonathan bringeth in David unto Saul, and he is before him as heretofore.  
008 And there addeth to be war, and David goeth out and fighteth against the Philistines, and smiteth among them -- a great smiting, and they flee from his face.  
009 And a spirit of sadness `from' Jehovah is unto Saul, and he is sitting in his house, and his javelin in his hand, and David is playing with the hand, 
010 and Saul seeketh to smite with the javelin through David, and through the wall, and he freeth himself from the presence of Saul, and he smiteth the javelin through the wall; and David hath fled and escapeth during that night.  
011 And Saul sendeth messengers unto the house of David to watch him, and to put him to death in the morning; and Michal his wife declareth to David, saying, `If thou art not delivering thy life to-night -- tomorrow thou art put to death.'  
012 And Michal causeth David to go down through the window, and he goeth on, and fleeth, and escapeth;  
013 and Michal taketh the teraphim, and layeth on the bed, and the mattress of goats' `hair' she hath put `for' his pillows, and covereth with a garment. 
014 And Saul sendeth messengers to take David, and she saith, `He `is' sick.' 
015 And Saul sendeth the messengers to see David, saying, `Bring him up in the bed unto me,' -- to put him to death.  
016 And the messengers come in, and lo, the teraphim `are' on the bed, and the mattress of goats' `hair', `for' his pillows. 
017 And Saul saith unto Michal, `Why thus hast thou deceived me -- that thou dost send away mine enemy, and he is escaped?' and Michal saith unto Saul, `He said unto me, Send me away: why do I put thee to death?'  
018 And David hath fled, and is escaped, and cometh in unto Samuel to Ramath, and declareth to him all that Saul hath done to him, and he goeth, he and Samuel, and they dwell in Naioth.  
019 And it is declared to Saul, saying, `Lo, David `is' in Naioth in Ramah.' 
020 And Saul sendeth messengers to take David, and they see the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing, set over them, and the Spirit of God is on Saul's messengers, and they prophesy -- they also.  
021 And they declare `it' to Saul, and he sendeth other messengers, and they prophesy -- they also; and Saul addeth and sendeth messengers a third time, and they prophesy -- they also. 
022 And he goeth -- he also -- to Ramath, and cometh in unto the great well which `is' in Sechu, and asketh, and saith, `Where `are' Samuel and David?' and `one' saith, `Lo, in Naioth in Ramah.' 
023 And he goeth thither -- unto Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God is upon him -- him also; and he goeth, going on, and he prophesyeth till his coming in to Naioth in Ramah,  
024 and he strippeth off -- he also -- his garments, and prophesieth -- he also -- before Samuel, and falleth down naked all that day and all the night; therefore they say, `Is Saul also among the prophets?'  
