001 What, then, shall we say? shall we continue in the sin that the grace may abound?  
002 let it not be! we who died to the sin -- how shall we still live in it?  
003 are ye ignorant that we, as many as were baptized to Christ Jesus, to his death were baptized?  
004 we were buried together, then, with him through the baptism to the death, that even as Christ was raised up out of the dead through the glory of the Father, so also we in newness of life might walk.  
005 For, if we have become planted together to the likeness of his death, `so' also we shall be of the rising again; 
006 this knowing, that our old man was crucified with `him', that the body of the sin may be made useless, for our no longer serving the sin; 
007 for he who hath died hath been set free from the sin.  
008 And if we died with Christ, we believe that we also shall live with him,  
009 knowing that Christ, having been raised up out of the dead, doth no more die, death over him hath no more lordship;  
010 for in that he died, to the sin he died once, and in that he liveth, he liveth to God;  
011 so also ye, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to the sin, and living to God in Jesus Christ our Lord.  
012 Let not then the sin reign in your mortal body, to obey it in its desires;  
013 neither present ye your members instruments of unrighteousness to the sin, but present yourselves to God as living out of the dead, and your members instruments of righteousness to God;  
014 for sin over you shall not have lordship, for ye are not under law, but under grace.  
015 What then? shall we sin because we are not under law but under grace? let it not be!  
016 have ye not known that to whom ye present yourselves servants for obedience, servants ye are to him to whom ye obey, whether of sin to death, or of obedience to righteousness?  
017 and thanks to God, that ye were servants of the sin, and -- were obedient from the heart to the form of teaching to which ye were delivered up;  
018 and having been freed from the sin, ye became servants to the righteousness.  
019 In the manner of men I speak, because of the weakness of your flesh, for even as ye did present your members servants to the uncleanness and to the lawlessness -- to the lawlessness, so now present your members servants to the righteousness -- to sanctification,  
020 for when ye were servants of the sin, ye were free from the righteousness,  
021 what fruit, therefore, were ye having then, in the things of which ye are now ashamed? for the end of those `is' death. 
022 And now, having been freed from the sin, and having become servants to God, ye have your fruit -- to sanctification, and the end life age-during;  
023 for the wages of the sin `is' death, and the gift of God `is' life age-during in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
