001 What, then, `is' the superiority of the Jew? or what the profit of the circumcision? 
002 much in every way; for first, indeed, that they were intrusted with the oracles of God;  
003 for what, if certain were faithless? shall their faithlessness the faithfulness of god make useless?  
004 let it not be! and let God become true, and every man false, according as it hath been written, `That Thou mayest be declared righteous in Thy words, and mayest overcome in Thy being judged.'  
005 And, if our unrighteousness God's righteousness doth establish, what shall we say? is God unrighteous who is inflicting the wrath? (after the manner of a man I speak)  
006 let it not be! since how shall God judge the world?  
007 for if the truth of God in my falsehood did more abound to His glory, why yet am I also as a sinner judged?  
008 and not, as we are evil spoken of, and as certain affirm us to say -- `We may do the evil things, that the good ones may come?' whose judgment is righteous.  
009 What, then? are we better? not at all! for we did before charge both Jews and Greeks with being all under sin,  
010 according as it hath been written -- `There is none righteous, not even one;  
011 There is none who is understanding, there is none who is seeking after God.  
012 All did go out of the way, together they became unprofitable, there is none doing good, there is not even one.  
013 A sepulchre opened `is' their throat; with their tongues they used deceit; poison of asps `is' under their lips. 
014 Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.  
015 Swift `are' their feet to shed blood. 
016 Ruin and misery `are' in their ways. 
017 And a way of peace they did not know.  
018 There is no fear of God before their eyes.'  
019 And we have known that as many things as the law saith, to those in the law it doth speak, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may come under judgment to God;  
020 wherefore by works of law shall no flesh be declared righteous before Him, for through law is a knowledge of sin.  
021 And now apart from law hath the righteousness of God been manifested, testified to by the law and the prophets,  
022 and the righteousness of God `is' through the faith of Jesus Christ to all, and upon all those believing, -- for there is no difference, 
023 for all did sin, and are come short of the glory of God --  
024 being declared righteous freely by His grace through the redemption that `is' in Christ Jesus, 
025 whom God did set forth a mercy seat, through the faith in his blood, for the shewing forth of His righteousness, because of the passing over of the bygone sins in the forbearance of God --  
026 for the shewing forth of His righteousness in the present time, for His being righteous, and declaring him righteous who `is' of the faith of Jesus. 
027 Where then `is' the boasting? it was excluded; by what law? of works? no, but by a law of faith: 
028 therefore do we reckon a man to be declared righteous by faith, apart from works of law.  
029 The God of Jews only `is He', and not also of nations? 
030 yes, also of nations; since one `is' God who shall declare righteous the circumcision by faith, and the uncircumcision through the faith. 
031 Law then do we make useless through the faith? let it not be! yea, we do establish law.  
