001 Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man -- every one who is judging -- for in that in which thou dost judge the other, thyself thou dost condemn, for the same things thou dost practise who art judging,  
002 and we have known that the judgment of God is according to truth, upon those practising such things.  
003 And dost thou think this, O man, who art judging those who such things are practising, and art doing them, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?  
004 or the riches of His goodness, and forbearance, and long-suffering, dost thou despise? -- not knowing that the goodness of God doth lead thee to reformation!  
005 but, according to thy hardness and impenitent heart, thou dost treasure up to thyself wrath, in a day of wrath and of the revelation of the righteous judgment of God,  
006 who shall render to each according to his works;  
007 to those, indeed, who in continuance of a good work, do seek glory, and honour, and incorruptibility -- life age-during;  
008 and to those contentious, and disobedient, indeed, to the truth, and obeying the unrighteousness -- indignation and wrath,  
009 tribulation and distress, upon every soul of man that is working the evil, both of Jew first, and of Greek;  
010 and glory, and honour, and peace, to every one who is working the good, both to Jew first, and to Greek.  
011 For there is no acceptance of faces with God,  
012 for as many as without law did sin, without law also shall perish, and as many as did sin in law, through law shall be judged,  
013 for not the hearers of the law `are' righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be declared righteous: -- 
014 For, when nations that have not a law, by nature may do the things of the law, these not having a law -- to themselves are a law;  
015 who do shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also witnessing with them, and between one another the thoughts accusing or else defending,  
016 in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my good news, through Jesus Christ.  
017 Lo, thou art named a Jew, and dost rest upon the law, and dost boast in God,  
018 and dost know the will, and dost approve the distinctions, being instructed out of the law,  
019 and hast confidence that thou thyself art a leader of blind ones, a light of those in darkness,  
020 an instructor of foolish ones, a teacher of babes, having the form of the knowledge and of the truth in the law.  
021 Thou, then, who art teaching another, thyself dost thou not teach?  
022 thou who art preaching not to steal, dost thou steal? thou who art saying not to commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou who art abhorring the idols, dost thou rob temples?  
023 thou who in the law dost boast, through the transgression of the law God dost thou dishonour?  
024 for the name of God because of you is evil spoken of among the nations, according as it hath been written.  
025 For circumcision, indeed, doth profit, if law thou mayest practise, but if a transgressor of law thou mayest be, thy circumcision hath become uncircumcision.  
026 If, therefore the uncircumcision the righteousness of the law may keep, shall not his uncircumcision for circumcision be reckoned?  
027 and the uncircumcision, by nature, fulfilling the law, shall judge thee who, through letter and circumcision, `art' a transgressor of law. 
028 For he is not a Jew who is `so' outwardly, neither `is' circumcision that which is outward in flesh; 
029 but a Jew `is' he who is `so' inwardly, and circumcision `is' of the heart, in spirit, not in letter, of which the praise is not of men, but of God. 
