001 And concerning the collection that `is' for the saints, as I directed to the assemblies of Galatia, so also ye -- do ye; 
002 on every first `day' of the week, let each one of you lay by him, treasuring up whatever he may have prospered, that when I may come then collections may not be made; 
003 and whenever I may come, whomsoever ye may approve, through letters, these I will send to carry your favour to Jerusalem;  
004 and if it be meet for me also to go, with me they shall go.  
005 And I will come unto you, when I pass through Macedonia -- for Macedonia I do pass through --  
006 and with you, it may be, I will abide, or even winter, that ye may send me forward whithersoever I go,  
007 for I do not wish to see you now in the passing, but I hope to remain a certain time with you, if the Lord may permit;  
008 and I will remain in Ephesus till the Pentecost,  
009 for a door to me hath been opened -- great and effectual -- and withstanders `are' many. 
010 And if Timotheus may come, see that he may become without fear with you, for the work of the Lord he doth work, even as I,  
011 no one, then, may despise him; and send ye him forward in peace, that he may come to me, for I expect him with the brethren;  
012 and concerning Apollos our brother, much I did entreat him that he may come unto you with the brethren, and it was not at all `his' will that he may come now, and he will come when he may find convenient. 
013 Watch ye, stand in the faith; be men, be strong;  
014 let all your things be done in love.  
015 And I entreat you, brethren, ye have known the household of Stephanas, that it is the first-fruit of Achaia, and to the ministration to the saints they did set themselves --  
016 that ye also be subject to such, and to every one who is working with `us' and labouring; 
017 and I rejoice over the presence of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, because the lack of you did these fill up;  
018 for they did refresh my spirit and yours; acknowledge ye, therefore, those who `are' such. 
019 Salute you do the assemblies of Asia; salute you much in the Lord do Aquilas and Priscilla, with the assembly in their house;  
020 salute you do all the brethren; salute ye one another in an holy kiss.  
021 The salutation of `me' Paul with my hand; 
022 if any one doth not love the Lord Jesus Christ -- let him be anathema! The Lord hath come!  
023 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ `is' with you; 
024 my love `is' with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
