001 Dare any one of you, having a matter with the other, go to be judged before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?  
002 have ye not known that the saints shall judge the world? and if by you the world is judged, are ye unworthy of the smaller judgments?  
003 have ye not known that we shall judge messengers? why not then the things of life?  
004 of the things of life, indeed, then, if ye may have judgment, those despised in the assembly -- these cause ye to sit;  
005 unto your shame I speak: so there is not among you one wise man, not even one, who shall be able to discern in the midst of his brethren!  
006 but brother with brother doth go to be judged, and this before unbelievers!  
007 Already, indeed, then, there is altogether a fault among you, that ye have judgments with one another; wherefore do ye not rather suffer injustice? wherefore be ye not rather defrauded?  
008 but ye -- ye do injustice, and ye defraud, and these -- brethren!  
009 have ye not known that the unrighteous the reign of God shall not inherit? be not led astray; neither whoremongers, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor sodomites,  
010 nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, the reign of God shall inherit.  
011 And certain of you were these! but ye were washed, but ye were sanctified, but ye were declared righteous, in the name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God.  
012 All things are lawful to me, but all things are not profitable; all things are lawful to me, but I -- I will not be under authority by any;  
013 the meats `are' for the belly, and the belly for the meats. And God both this and these shall make useless; and the body `is' not for whoredom, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body; 
014 and God both the Lord did raise, and us will raise up through His power.  
015 Have ye not known that your bodies are members of Christ? having taken, then, the members of the Christ, shall I make `them' members of an harlot? let it be not! 
016 have ye not known that he who is joined to the harlot is one body? `for they shall be -- saith He -- the two for one flesh.'  
017 And he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit;  
018 flee the whoredom; every sin -- whatever a man may commit -- is without the body, and he who is committing whoredom, against his own body doth sin.  
019 Have ye not known that your body is a sanctuary of the Holy Spirit in you, which ye have from God? and ye are not your own,  
020 for ye were bought with a price; glorify, then, God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's.  
