001 And concerning the spiritual things, brethren, I do not wish you to be ignorant;  
002 ye have known that ye were nations, unto the dumb idols -- as ye were led -- being carried away;  
003 wherefore, I give you to understand that no one, in the Spirit of God speaking, saith Jesus `is' anathema, and no one is able to say Jesus `is' Lord, except in the Holy Spirit. 
004 And there are diversities of gifts, and the same Spirit;  
005 and there are diversities of ministrations, and the same Lord;  
006 and there are diversities of workings, and it is the same God -- who is working the all in all.  
007 And to each hath been given the manifestation of the Spirit for profit;  
008 for to one through the Spirit hath been given a word of wisdom, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;  
009 and to another faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healings in the same Spirit;  
010 and to another in-workings of mighty deeds; and to another prophecy; and to another discernings of spirits; and to another `divers' kinds of tongues; and to another interpretation of tongues: 
011 and all these doth work the one and the same Spirit, dividing to each severally as he intendeth.  
012 For, even as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the one body, being many, are one body, so also `is' the Christ, 
013 for also in one Spirit we all to one body were baptized, whether Jews or Greeks, whether servants or freemen, and all into one Spirit were made to drink,  
014 for also the body is not one member, but many;  
015 if the foot may say, `Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body;' it is not, because of this, not of the body;  
016 and if the ear may say, `Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body;' it is not, because of this, not of the body?  
017 If the whole body `were' an eye, where the hearing? if the whole hearing, where the smelling? 
018 and now, God did set the members each one of them in the body, according as He willed,  
019 and if all were one member, where the body?  
020 and now, indeed, `are' many members, and one body; 
021 and an eye is not able to say to the hand, `I have no need of thee;' nor again the head to the feet, `I have no need of you.'  
022 But much more the members of the body which seem to be more infirm are necessary,  
023 and those that we think to be less honourable of the body, around these we put more abundant honour, and our unseemly things have seemliness more abundant,  
024 and our seemly things have no need; but God did temper the body together, to the lacking part having given more abundant honour,  
025 that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same anxiety for one another,  
026 and whether one member doth suffer, suffer with `it' do all the members, or one member is glorified, rejoice with `it' do all the members; 
027 and ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.  
028 And some, indeed, did God set in the assembly, first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, afterwards powers, afterwards gifts of healings, helpings, governings, divers kinds of tongues;  
029 `are' all apostles? `are' all prophets? `are' all teachers? `are' all powers? 
030 have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?  
031 and desire earnestly the better gifts; and yet a far excelling way do I shew to you:  
