001 Followers of me become ye, as I also `am' of Christ. 
002 And I praise you, brethren, that in all things ye remember me, and according as I did deliver to you, the deliverances ye keep,  
003 and I wish you to know that of every man the head is the Christ, and the head of a woman is the husband, and the head of Christ is God.  
004 Every man praying or prophesying, having the head covered, doth dishonour his head,  
005 and every woman praying or prophesying with the head uncovered, doth dishonour her own head, for it is one and the same thing with her being shaven,  
006 for if a woman is not covered -- then let her be shorn, and if `it is' a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven -- let her be covered; 
007 for a man, indeed, ought not to cover the head, being the image and glory of God, and a woman is the glory of a man,  
008 for a man is not of a woman, but a woman `is' of a man, 
009 for a man also was not created because of the woman, but a woman because of the man;  
010 because of this the woman ought to have `a token of' authority upon the head, because of the messengers; 
011 but neither `is' a man apart from a woman, nor a woman apart from a man, in the Lord, 
012 for as the woman `is' of the man, so also the man `is' through the woman, and the all things `are' of God. 
013 In your own selves judge ye; is it seemly for a woman uncovered to pray to God?  
014 doth not even nature itself teach you, that if a man indeed have long hair, a dishonour it is to him?  
015 and a woman, if she have long hair, a glory it is to her, because the hair instead of a covering hath been given to her;  
016 and if any one doth think to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the assemblies of God.  
017 And this declaring, I give no praise, because not for the better, but for the worse ye come together;  
018 for first, indeed, ye coming together in an assembly, I hear of divisions being among you, and partly I believe `it', 
019 for it behoveth sects also to be among you, that those approved may become manifest among you;  
020 ye, then, coming together at the same place -- it is not to eat the Lord's supper;  
021 for each his own supper doth take before in the eating, and one is hungry, and another is drunk;  
022 why, have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or the assembly of God do ye despise, and shame those not having? what may I say to you? shall I praise you in this? I do not praise!  
023 For I -- I received from the Lord that which also I did deliver to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was delivered up, took bread,  
024 and having given thanks, he brake, and said, `Take ye, eat ye, this is my body, that for you is being broken; this do ye -- to the remembrance of me.'  
025 In like manner also the cup after the supping, saying, `This cup is the new covenant in my blood; this do ye, as often as ye may drink `it' -- to the remembrance of me;' 
026 for as often as ye may eat this bread, and this cup may drink, the death of the Lord ye do shew forth -- till he may come;  
027 so that whoever may eat this bread or may drink the cup of the Lord unworthily, guilty he shall be of the body and blood of the Lord:  
028 and let a man be proving himself, and so of the bread let him eat, and of the cup let him drink;  
029 for he who is eating and drinking unworthily, judgment to himself he doth eat and drink -- not discerning the body of the Lord.  
030 Because of this, among you many `are' weak and sickly, and sleep do many; 
031 for if ourselves we were discerning, we would not be being judged,  
032 and being judged by the Lord, we are chastened, that with the world we may not be condemned;  
033 so then, my brethren, coming together to eat, for one another wait ye;  
034 and if any one is hungry, at home let him eat, that to judgment ye may not come together; and the rest, whenever I may come, I shall arrange.  
