001 At that time Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus, 
002 and he said to his servants, `This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead; that is why these miraculous powers are at work in him.` 
003 For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, 
004 because John had been saying to him, `It is not lawful for you to have her.` 
005 And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people, because they held him to be a prophet. 
006 But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased Herod, 
007 so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. 
008 Prompted by her mother, she said, `Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter.` 
009 And the king was sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he commanded it to be given. 
010 He sent and had John beheaded in the prison, 
011 and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. 
012 And his disciples came and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus. 
013 Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the towns. 
014 When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion on them and healed their sick. 
015 Now when it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, `This is a desolate place, and the day is now over; send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves.` 
016 But Jesus said, `They need not go away; you give them something to eat.` 
017 They said to him, `We have only five loaves here and two fish.` 
018 And he said, `Bring them here to me.` 
019 Then he ordered the crowds to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds. 
020 And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces left over. 
021 And those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children. 
022 Immediately he made the disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, while he dismissed the crowds. 
023 And after he had dismissed the crowds, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone, 
024 but the boat by this time was a long way from the land, beaten by the waves, for the wind was against them. 
025 And in the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. 
026 But when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified, and said, `It is a ghost!` and they cried out in fear. 
027 But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, `Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid.` 
028 And Peter answered him, `Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water.` 
029 He said, `Come.` So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus. 
030 But when he saw the wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, `Lord, save me.` 
031 Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him, `O you of little faith, why did you doubt?` 
032 And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased. 
033 And those in the boat worshiped him, saying, `Truly you are the Son of God.` 
034 And when they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret. 
035 And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent around to all that region and brought to him all who were sick 
036 and implored him that they might only touch the fringe of his garment. And as many as touched it were made well. 
