001 And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and to test him they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. 
002 He answered them, `When it is evening, you say, 'It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.' 
003 And in the morning, 'It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.' You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. 
004 An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.` So he left them and departed. 
005 When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to bring any bread. 
006 Jesus said to them, `Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.` 
007 And they began discussing it among themselves, saying, `We brought no bread.` 
008 But Jesus, aware of this, said, `O you of little faith, why are you discussing among yourselves the fact that you have no bread? 
009 Do you not yet perceive? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you gathered? 
010 Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you gathered? 
011 How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.` 
012 Then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 
013 Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, `Who do people say that the Son of Man is?` 
014 And they said, `Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.` 
015 He said to them, `But who do you say that I am?` 
016 Simon Peter replied, `You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.` 
017 And Jesus answered him, `Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah! For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. 
018 And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 
019 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.` 
020 Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. 
021 From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. 
022 And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, `Far be it from you, Lord! This shall never happen to you.` 
023 But he turned and said to Peter, `Get behind me, Satan! You are a hindrance to me. For you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.` 
024 Then Jesus told his disciples, `If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. 
025 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. 
026 For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his life? Or what shall a man give in return for his life? 
027 For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done. 
028 Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.` 
