001 When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities. 
002 Now when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples 
003 and said to him, `Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?` 
004 And Jesus answered them, `Go and tell John what you hear and see: 
005 the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. 
006 And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.` 
007 As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: `What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 
008 What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings' houses. 
009 What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. 
010 This is he of whom it is written, `' Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.' 
011 Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. 
012 From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force. 
013 For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John, 
014 and if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come. 
015 He who has ears to hear, let him hear. 
016 `But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates, 
017 `'We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.' 
018 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, 'He has a demon.' 
019 The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, 'Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds.` 
020 Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent. 
021 `Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 
022 But I tell you, it will be more bearable on the day of judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. 
023 And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. 
024 But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.` 
025 At that time Jesus declared, `I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children; 
026 yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. 
027 All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. 
028 Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 
029 Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 
030 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.` 
