001 Jesus left the temple and was going away, when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple. 
002 But he answered them, `You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.` 
003 As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, `Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the close of the age?` 
004 And Jesus answered them, `See that no one leads you astray. 
005 For many will come in my name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and they will lead many astray. 
006 And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet. 
007 For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. 
008 All these are but the beginning of the birth pains. 
009 `Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. 
010 And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. 
011 And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. 
012 And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. 
013 But the one who endures to the end will be saved. 
014 And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. 
015 `So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place ( let the reader understand), 
016 then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. 
017 Let the one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house, 
018 and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. 
019 And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days! 
020 Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath. 
021 For then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be. 
022 And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short. 
023 Then if anyone says to you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or 'There he is!' do not believe it. 
024 For false christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. 
025 See, I have told you beforehand. 
026 So, if they say to you, 'Look, he is in the wilderness,' do not go out. If they say, 'Look, he is in the inner rooms,' do not believe it. 
027 For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
028 Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. 
029 `Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 
030 Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. 
031 And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. 
032 `From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. 
033 So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates. 
034 Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. 
035 Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 
036 `But concerning that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. 
037 As were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
038 For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark, 
039 and they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
040 Then two men will be in the field; one will be taken and one left. 
041 Two women will be grinding at the mill; one will be taken and one left. 
042 Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming. 
043 But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into. 
044 Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. 
045 `Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time? 
046 Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. 
047 Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. 
048 But if that wicked servant says to himself, 'My master is delayed,' 
049 and begins to beat his fellow servants and eats and drinks with drunkards, 
050 the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know 
051 and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
