001 Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. 
002 And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. 
003 And the tempter came and said to him, `If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread.` 
004 But he answered, `It is written, `' Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.'` 
005 Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple 
006 and said to him, `If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, `' He will command his angels concerning you,' and `'On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.'` 
007 Jesus said to him, `Again it is written, 'You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.'` 
008 Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. 
009 And he said to him, `All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me.` 
010 Then Jesus said to him, `Be gone, Satan! For it is written, `' You shall worship the Lord your God and him only shall you serve.'` 
011 Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. 
012 Now when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee. 
013 And leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali, 
014 so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled: 
015 `The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles- 
016 the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned.` 
017 From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, `Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.` 
018 While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon (who is called Peter) and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. 
019 And he said to them, `Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.` 
020 Immediately they left their nets and followed him. 
021 And going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. 
022 Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. 
023 And he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people. 
024 So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them. 
025 And great crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis, and from Jerusalem and Judea, and from beyond the Jordan. 
