001 And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city. 
002 And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, `Take heart, my son; your sins are forgiven.` 
003 And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, `This man is blaspheming.` 
004 But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, `Why do you think evil in your hearts? 
005 For which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven,' or to say, 'Rise and walk'? 
006 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins`- he then said to the paralytic- `Rise, pick up your bed and go home.` 
007 And he rose and went home. 
008 When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men. 
009 As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, `Follow me.` And he rose and followed him. 
010 And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples. 
011 And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, `Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?` 
012 But when he heard it, he said, `Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. 
013 Go and learn what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.' For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners.` 
014 Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, `Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?` 
015 And Jesus said to them, `Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. 
016 No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made. 
017 Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved.` 
018 While he was saying these things to them, behold, a ruler came in and knelt before him, saying, `My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live.` 
019 And Jesus rose and followed him, with his disciples. 
020 And behold, a woman who had suffered from a discharge of blood for twelve years came up behind him and touched the fringe of his garment, 
021 for she said to herself, `If I only touch his garment, I will be made well.` 
022 Jesus turned, and seeing her he said, `Take heart, daughter; your faith has made you well.` And instantly the woman was made well. 
023 And when Jesus came to the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion, 
024 he said, `Go away, for the girl is not dead but sleeping.` And they laughed at him. 
025 But when the crowd had been put outside, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl arose. 
026 And the report of this went through all that district. 
027 And as Jesus passed on from there, two blind men followed him, crying aloud, `Have mercy on us, Son of David.` 
028 When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, `Do you believe that I am able to do this?` They said to him, `Yes, Lord.` 
029 Then he touched their eyes, saying, `According to your faith be it done to you.` 
030 And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, `See that no one knows about it.` 
031 But they went away and spread his fame through all that district. 
032 As they were going away, behold, a demon-oppressed man who was mute was brought to him. 
033 And when the demon had been cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, `Never was anything like this seen in Israel.` 
034 But the Pharisees said, `He casts out demons by the prince of demons.` 
035 And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. 
036 When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. 
037 Then he said to his disciples, `The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few; 
038 therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.` 
