001 Paul, an apostle, (not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead;) 
002 And all the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Galatia: 
003 Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ, 
004 Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father: 
005 To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
006 I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel: 
007 Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ. 
008 But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. 
009 As we said before, so say I now again, If any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed. 
010 For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ. 
011 But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. 
012 For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. 
013 For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it: 
014 And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers. 
015 But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace, 
016 To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood: 
017 Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus. 
018 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days. 
019 But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's brother. 
020 Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God, I lie not. 
021 Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia; 
022 And was unknown by face unto the churches of Judaea which were in Christ: 
023 But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed. 
024 And they glorified God in me. 
