001 Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. 
002 Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. 
003 For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law. 
004 Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace. 
005 For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. 
006 For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision; but faith which worketh by love. 
007 Ye did run well; who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth? 
008 This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you. 
009 A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. 
010 I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be. 
011 And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased. 
012 I would they were even cut off which trouble you. 
013 For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. 
014 For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
015 But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. 
016 This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. 
017 For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. 
018 But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. 
019 Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, 
020 Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, 
021 Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. 
022 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, 
023 Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. 
024 And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. 
025 If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. 
026 Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another. 
