001 And these three men cease from answering Job, for he `is' righteous in his own eyes, 
002 and burn doth the anger of Elihu son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram; against Job hath his anger burned, because of his justifying himself more than God;  
003 and against his three friends hath his anger burned, because that they have not found an answer, and condemn Job.  
004 And Elihu hath waited earnestly beside Job with words, for they are older than he in days.  
005 And Elihu seeth that there is no answer in the mouth of the three men, and his anger burneth.  
006 And Elihu son of Barachel the Buzite answereth and saith: -- Young I `am' in days, and ye `are' age Therefore I have feared, And am afraid of shewing you my opinion. 
007 I said: Days do speak, And multitude of years teach wisdom.  
008 Surely a spirit is in man, And the breath of the Mighty One Doth cause them to understand.  
009 The multitude are not wise, Nor do the aged understand judgment.  
010 Therefore I have said: Hearken to me, I do shew my opinion -- even I.  
011 Lo, I have waited for your words, I give ear unto your reasons, Till ye search out sayings.  
012 And unto you I attend, And lo, there is no reasoner for Job, `Or' answerer of his sayings among you. 
013 Lest ye say, We have found wisdom, God doth thrust him away, not man.  
014 And he hath not set in array words for me, And with your sayings I do not answer him.  
015 (They have broken down, They have not answered again, They removed from themselves words.  
016 And I have waited, but they do not speak, For they have stood still, They have not answered any more.)  
017 I answer, even I -- my share, I shew my opinion -- even I.  
018 For I have been full of words, Distressed me hath the spirit of my breast,  
019 Lo, my breast `is' as wine not opened, Like new bottles it is broken up. 
020 I speak, and there is refreshment to me, I open my lips and answer.  
021 Let me not, I pray you, accept the face of any, Nor unto man give flattering titles,  
022 For I have not known to give flattering titles, In a little doth my Maker take me away.  
