001 Is there not a warfare to man on earth? And as the days of an hireling his days?  
002 As a servant desireth the shadow, And as a hireling expecteth his wage,  
003 So I have been caused to inherit months of vanity, And nights of misery they numbered to me.  
004 If I lay down then I said, `When do I rise!' And evening hath been measured, And I have been full of tossings till dawn.  
005 Clothed hath been my flesh `with' worms, And a clod of dust, My skin hath been shrivelled and is loathsome, 
006 My days swifter than a weaving machine, And they are consumed without hope.  
007 Remember Thou that my life `is' a breath, Mine eye turneth not back to see good. 
008 The eye of my beholder beholdeth me not. Thine eyes `are' upon me -- and I am not. 
009 Consumed hath been a cloud, and it goeth, So he who is going down to Sheol cometh not up.  
010 He turneth not again to his house, Nor doth his place discern him again.  
011 Also I -- I withhold not my mouth -- I speak in the distress of my spirit, I talk in the bitterness of my soul.  
012 A sea-`monster' am I, or a dragon, That thou settest over me a guard? 
013 When I said, `My bed doth comfort me,' He taketh away in my talking my couch.  
014 And thou hast affrighted me with dreams, And from visions thou terrifiest me,  
015 And my soul chooseth strangling, Death rather than my bones.  
016 I have wasted away -- not to the age do I live. Cease from me, for my days `are' vanity. 
017 What `is' man that Thou dost magnify him? And that Thou settest unto him Thy heart? 
018 And inspectest him in the mornings, In the evenings dost try him?  
019 How long dost Thou not look from me? Thou dost not desist till I swallow my spittle.  
020 I have sinned, what do I to Thee, O watcher of man? Why hast Thou set me for a mark to Thee, And I am for a burden to myself -- and what?  
021 Thou dost not take away my transgression, And cause to pass away mine iniquity, Because now, for dust I lie down: And Thou hast sought me -- and I am not!  
