001 And David speaketh to Jehovah the words of this song in the day Jehovah hath delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul,  
002 and he saith: `Jehovah `is' my rock, And my bulwark, and a deliverer to me, 
003 My God `is' my rock -- I take refuge in Him; My shield, and the horn of my salvation, My high tower, and my refuge! My Saviour, from violence Thou savest me! 
004 The Praised One, I call Jehovah: And from mine enemies I am saved.  
005 When the breakers of death compassed me, The streams of the worthless terrify me,  
006 The cords of Sheol have surrounded me, Before me have been the snares of death.  
007 In mine adversity I call Jehovah, And unto my God I call, And He heareth from His temple my voice, And my cry `is' in His ears, 
008 And shake and tremble doth the earth, Foundations of the heavens are troubled, And are shaken, for He hath wrath!  
009 Gone up hath smoke by His nostrils. And fire from His mouth devoureth, Brands have been kindled by it.  
010 And He inclineth heaven, and cometh down, And thick darkness `is' under His feet. 
011 And He rideth on a cherub, and doth fly, And is seen on the wings of the wind.  
012 And He setteth darkness Round about Him -- tabernacles, Darkness of waters -- thick clouds of the skies.  
013 From the brightness before Him Were brands of fire kindled!  
014 Thunder from the heavens doth Jehovah, And the Most High giveth forth His voice.  
015 And He sendeth forth arrows, And scattereth them; Lightning, and troubleth them;  
016 And seen are the streams of the sea, Revealed are foundations of the world, By the rebuke of Jehovah, From the breath of the spirit of His anger.  
017 He sendeth from above -- He taketh me, He draweth me out of many waters.  
018 He delivereth me from my strong enemy, From those hating me, For they were stronger than I.  
019 They are before me in a day of my calamity, And Jehovah is my support,  
020 And He bringeth me out to a large place, He draweth me out for He delighted in me.  
021 Jehovah recompenseth me, According to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands, He doth return to me.  
022 For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, And have not done wickedly against my God.  
023 For all His judgments `are' before me, As to His statutes, I turn not from them. 
024 And I am perfect before Him, And I keep myself from mine iniquity.  
025 And Jehovah returneth to me, According to my righteousness, According to my cleanness before His eyes.  
026 With the kind Thou shewest Thyself kind, With the perfect man Thou shewest Thyself perfect,  
027 With the pure Thou shewest Thyself pure, And with the perverse Thou shewest Thyself a wrestler.  
028 And the poor people Thou dost save, And Thine eyes on the high causest to fall.  
029 For Thou `art' my lamp, O Jehovah, And Jehovah doth lighten my darkness. 
030 For by Thee I run -- a troop, By my God I leap a wall.  
031 God! Perfect `is' His way, The saying of Jehovah is tried, A shield He `is' to all those trusting in Him. 
032 For who is God save Jehovah? And who a Rock save our God?  
033 God -- my bulwark, `my' strength, And He maketh perfect my way; 
034 Making my feet like hinds, And on my high places causeth me to stand,  
035 Teaching my hands for battle, And brought down was a bow of brass by mine arms,  
036 And Thou givest to me the shield of Thy salvation, And Thy lowliness maketh me great.  
037 Thou enlargest my step under me, And mine ankles have not slidden.  
038 I pursue mine enemies and destroy them, And I turn not till they are consumed.  
039 And I consume them, and smite them, And they rise not, and fall under my feet.  
040 And Thou girdest me `with' strength for battle, Thou causest my withstanders to bow under me. 
041 And mine enemies -- Thou givest to me the neck, Those hating me -- and I cut them off.  
042 They look, and there is no saviour; Unto Jehovah, and He hath not answered them.  
043 And I beat them as dust of the earth, As mire of the streets I beat them small -- I spread them out!  
044 And -- Thou dost deliver me From the strivings of my people, Thou placest me for a head of nations; A people I have not known do serve me.  
045 Sons of a stranger feign obedience to me, At the hearing of the ear they hearken to me.  
046 Sons of a stranger fade away, And gird themselves by their close places.  
047 Jehovah liveth, and blessed `is' my Rock, And exalted is my God -- The Rock of my salvation. 
048 God -- who is giving vengeance to me, And bringing down peoples under me,  
049 And bringing me forth from mine enemies, Yea, above my withstanders Thou raisest me up. From a man of violence Thou deliverest me.  
050 Therefore I confess Thee, O Jehovah, among nations. And to Thy name I sing praise. 
051 Magnifying the salvations of His king, And doing loving-kindness to His anointed, To David, and to his seed -- unto the age!'  
