001 So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter. 
002 Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than the living which are yet alive. 
003 Yea, better is he than both they, which hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun. 
004 Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbour. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit. 
005 The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh. 
006 Better is an handful with quietness, than both the hands full with travail and vexation of spirit. 
007 Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun. 
008 There is one alone, and there is not a second; yea, he hath neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom do I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yea, it is a sore travail. 
009 Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour. 
010 For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up. 
011 Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone? 
012 And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken. 
013 Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished. 
014 For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor. 
015 I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with the second child that shall stand up in his stead. 
016 There is no end of all the people, even of all that have been before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit. 
