001 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, To the twelve tribes in the Dispersion: Greetings. 
002 Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, 
003 for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. 
004 And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. 
005 If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. 
006 But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. 
007 For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord; 
008 he is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. 
009 Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, 
010 and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away. 
011 For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass; its flower falls, and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. 
012 Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. 
013 Let no one say when he is tempted, `I am being tempted by God,` for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. 
014 But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. 
015 Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. 
016 Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. 
017 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. 
018 Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creation. 
019 Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger; 
020 for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness that God requires. 
021 Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. 
022 But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. 
023 For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. 
024 For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. 
025 But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. 
026 If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. 
027 Religion that is pure and undefiled before God and the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world. 
