001 After two days was the feast of the passover, and of unleavened bread: and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft, and put him to death. 
002 But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar of the people. 
003 And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on his head. 
004 And there were some that had indignation within themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made? 
005 For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have been given to the poor. And they murmured against her. 
006 And Jesus said, Let her alone; why trouble ye her? she hath wrought a good work on me. 
007 For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye will ye may do them good: but me ye have not always. 
008 She hath done what she could: she is come aforehand to anoint my body to the burying. 
009 Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her. 
010 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief priests, to betray him unto them. 
011 And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought how he might conveniently betray him. 
012 And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and prepare that thou mayest eat the passover? 
013 And he sendeth forth two of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go ye into the city, and there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follow him. 
014 And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of the house, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? 
015 And he will shew you a large upper room furnished and prepared: there make ready for us. 
016 And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover. 
017 And in the evening he cometh with the twelve. 
018 And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, One of you which eateth with me shall betray me. 
019 And they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto him one by one, Is it I? and another said, Is it I? 
020 And he answered and said unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish. 
021 The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had never been born. 
022 And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body. 
023 And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them: and they all drank of it. 
024 And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many. 
025 Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God. 
026 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives. 
027 And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. 
028 But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. 
029 But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I. 
030 And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
031 But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all. 
032 And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane: and he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray. 
033 And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy; 
034 And saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch. 
035 And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. 
036 And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me: nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt. 
037 And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watch one hour? 
038 Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. 
039 And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words. 
040 And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him. 
041 And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
042 Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand. 
043 And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. 
044 And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him away safely. 
045 And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, and saith, Master, master; and kissed him. 
046 And they laid their hands on him, and took him. 
047 And one of them that stood by drew a sword, and smote a servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. 
048 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and with staves to take me? 
049 I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not: but the scriptures must be fulfilled. 
050 And they all forsook him, and fled. 
051 And there followed him a certain young man, having a linen cloth cast about his naked body; and the young men laid hold on him: 
052 And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked. 
053 And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes. 
054 And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire. 
055 And the chief priests and all the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death; and found none. 
056 For many bare false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together. 
057 And there arose certain, and bare false witness against him, saying, 
058 We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands. 
059 But neither so did their witness agree together. 
060 And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee? 
061 But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? 
062 And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven. 
063 Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need we any further witnesses? 
064 Ye have heard the blasphemy: what think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death. 
065 And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the servants did strike him with the palms of their hands. 
066 And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest: 
067 And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth. 
068 But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew. 
069 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them. 
070 And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a Galilaean, and thy speech agreeth thereto. 
071 But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak. 
072 And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept. 
