001 And he began again to teach by the sea side: and there was gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship, and sat in the sea; and the whole multitude was by the sea on the land. 
002 And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them in his doctrine, 
003 Hearken; Behold, there went out a sower to sow: 
004 And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up. 
005 And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth: 
006 But when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away. 
007 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. 
008 And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased; and brought forth, some thirty, and some sixty, and some an hundred. 
009 And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
010 And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parable. 
011 And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all these things are done in parables: 
012 That seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest at any time they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them. 
013 And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how then will ye know all parables? 
014 The sower soweth the word. 
015 And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts. 
016 And these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground; who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness; 
017 And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time: afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word's sake, immediately they are offended. 
018 And these are they which are sown among thorns; such as hear the word, 
019 And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. 
020 And these are they which are sown on good ground; such as hear the word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some an hundred. 
021 And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick? 
022 For there is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither was any thing kept secret, but that it should come abroad. 
023 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear. 
024 And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you: and unto you that hear shall more be given. 
025 For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he hath. 
026 And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground; 
027 And should sleep, and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up, he knoweth not how. 
028 For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. 
029 But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is come. 
030 And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it? 
031 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that be in the earth: 
032 But when it is sown, it groweth up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it. 
033 And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they were able to hear it. 
034 But without a parable spake he not unto them: and when they were alone, he expounded all things to his disciples. 
035 And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. 
036 And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships. 
037 And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. 
038 And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? 
039 And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 
040 And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith? 
041 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him? 
