001 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God; 
002 As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. 
003 The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. 
004 John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. 
005 And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins. 
006 And John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey; 
007 And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. 
008 I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. 
009 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan. 
010 And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him: 
011 And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. 
012 And immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness. 
013 And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him. 
014 Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 
015 And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the gospel. 
016 Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. 
017 And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. 
018 And straightway they forsook their nets, and followed him. 
019 And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship mending their nets. 
020 And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him. 
021 And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue, and taught. 
022 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes. 
023 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, 
024 Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. 
025 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. 
026 And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him. 
027 And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for with authority commandeth he even the unclean spirits, and they do obey him. 
028 And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region round about Galilee. 
029 And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. 
030 But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tell him of her. 
031 And he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up; and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them. 
032 And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils. 
033 And all the city was gathered together at the door. 
034 And he healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and cast out many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because they knew him. 
035 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed. 
036 And Simon and they that were with him followed after him. 
037 And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee. 
038 And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also: for therefore came I forth. 
039 And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast out devils. 
040 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
041 And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou clean. 
042 And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed. 
043 And he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away; 
044 And saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
045 But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter. 
