001 And it came to pass, on one of those days, as he is teaching the people in the temple, and proclaiming good news, the chief priests and the scribes, with the elders, came upon `him', 
002 and spake unto him, saying, `Tell us by what authority thou dost these things? or who is he that gave to thee this authority?'  
003 And he answering said unto them, `I will question you -- I also -- one thing, and tell me:  
004 the baptism of John, from heaven was it, or from men?'  
005 And they reasoned with themselves, saying -- `If we may say, From heaven, he will say, Wherefore, then, did ye not believe him?  
006 and if we may say, From men, all the people will stone us, for they are having been persuaded John to be a prophet.'  
007 And they answered, that they knew not whence `it was', 
008 and Jesus said to them, `Neither do I say to you by what authority I do these things.'  
009 And he began to speak unto the people this simile: `A certain man planted a vineyard, and gave it out to husbandmen, and went abroad for a long time,  
010 and at the season he sent unto the husbandmen a servant, that from the fruit of the vineyard they may give to him, but the husbandmen having beat him, did send `him' away empty. 
011 `And he added to send another servant, and they that one also having beaten and dishonoured, did send away empty;  
012 and he added to send a third, and this one also, having wounded, they did cast out.  
013 `And the owner of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send my son -- the beloved, perhaps having seen this one, they will do reverence;  
014 and having seen him, the husbandmen reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir; come, we may kill him, that the inheritance may become ours;  
015 and having cast him outside of the vineyard, they killed `him'; what, then, shall the owner of the vineyard do to them? 
016 He will come, and destroy these husbandmen, and will give the vineyard to others.' And having heard, they said, `Let it not be!'  
017 and he, having looked upon them, said, `What, then, is this that hath been written: A stone that the builders rejected -- this became head of a corner?  
018 every one who hath fallen on that stone shall be broken, and on whom it may fall, it will crush him to pieces.'  
019 And the chief priests and the scribes sought to lay hands on him in that hour, and they feared the people, for they knew that against them he spake this simile.  
020 And, having watched `him', they sent forth liers in wait, feigning themselves to be righteous, that they might take hold of his word, to deliver him up to the rule and to the authority of the governor, 
021 and they questioned him, saying, `Teacher, we have known that thou dost say and teach rightly, and dost not accept a person, but in truth the way of God dost teach;  
022 Is it lawful to us to give tribute to Caesar or not?'  
023 And he, having perceived their craftiness, said unto them, `Why me do ye tempt?  
024 shew me a denary; of whom hath it an image and superscription?' and they answering said, `Of Caesar:'  
025 and he said to them, `Give back, therefore, the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God;'  
026 and they were not able to take hold on his saying before the people, and having wondered at his answer, they were silent.  
027 And certain of the Sadducees, who are denying that there is a rising again, having come near, questioned him,  
028 saying, `Teacher, Moses wrote to us, If any one's brother may die, having a wife, and he may die childless -- that his brother may take the wife, and may raise up seed to his brother.  
029 `There were, then, seven brothers, and the first having taken a wife, died childless,  
030 and the second took the wife, and he died childless,  
031 and the third took her, and in like manner also the seven -- they left not children, and they died;  
032 and last of all died also the woman:  
033 in the rising again, then, of which of them doth she become wife? -- for the seven had her as wife.'  
034 And Jesus answering said to them, `The sons of this age do marry and are given in marriage,  
035 but those accounted worthy to obtain that age, and the rising again that is out of the dead, neither marry, nor are they given in marriage;  
036 for neither are they able to die any more -- for they are like messengers -- and they are sons of God, being sons of the rising again.  
037 `And that the dead are raised, even Moses shewed at the Bush, since he doth call the Lord, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob;  
038 and He is not a God of dead men, but of living, for all live to Him.'  
039 And certain of the scribes answering said, `Teacher, thou didst say well;'  
040 and no more durst they question him anything.  
041 And he said unto them, `How do they say the Christ to be son of David,  
042 and David himself saith in the Book of Psalms, The Lord said to my lord, Sit thou on my right hand,  
043 till I shall make thine enemies thy footstool;  
044 David, then, doth call him lord, and how is he his son?'  
045 And, all the people hearing, he said to his disciples,  
046 `Take heed of the scribes, who are wishing to walk in long robes, and are loving salutations in the markets, and first seats in the synagogues, and first couches in the suppers,  
047 who devour the houses of the widows, and for a pretence make long prayers, these shall receive more abundant judgment.'  
