001 And having looked up, he saw those who did cast their gifts to the treasury -- rich men,  
002 and he saw also a certain poor widow casting there two mites,  
003 and he said, `Truly I say to you, that this poor widow did cast in more than all;  
004 for all these out of their superabundance did cast into the gifts to God, but this one out of her want, all the living that she had, did cast in.'  
005 And certain saying about the temple, that with goodly stones and devoted things it hath been adorned, he said,  
006 `These things that ye behold -- days will come, in which there shall not be left a stone upon a stone, that shall not be thrown down.'  
007 And they questioned him, saying, `Teacher, when, then, shall these things be? and what `is' the sign when these things may be about to happen?' 
008 And he said, `See -- ye may not be led astray, for many shall come in my name, saying -- I am `he', and the time hath come nigh; go not on then after them; 
009 and when ye may hear of wars and uprisings, be not terrified, for it behoveth these things to happen first, but the end `is' not immediately.' 
010 Then said he to them, `Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom,  
011 great shakings also in every place, and famines, and pestilences, there shall be; fearful things also, and great signs from heaven there shall be;  
012 and before all these, they shall lay on you their hands, and persecute, delivering up to synagogues and prisons, being brought before kings and governors for my name's sake;  
013 and it shall become to you for a testimony.  
014 `Settle, then, to your hearts, not to meditate beforehand to reply,  
015 for I will give to you a mouth and wisdom that all your opposers shall not be able to refute or resist.  
016 `And ye shall be delivered up also by parents, and brothers, and kindred, and friends, and they shall put of you to death;  
017 and ye shall be hated by all because of my name --  
018 and a hair out of your head shall not perish;  
019 in your patience possess ye your souls.  
020 `And when ye may see Jerusalem surrounded by encampments, then know that come nigh did her desolation;  
021 then those in Judea, let them flee to the mountains; and those in her midst, let them depart out; and those in the countries, let them not come in to her;  
022 because these are days of vengeance, to fulfil all things that have been written.  
023 `And wo to those with child, and to those giving suck, in those days; for there shall be great distress on the land, and wrath on this people;  
024 and they shall fall by the mouth of the sword, and shall be led captive to all the nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down by nations, till the times of nations be fulfilled.  
025 `And there shall be signs in sun, and moon, and stars, and on the land `is' distress of nations with perplexity, sea and billow roaring; 
026 men fainting at heart from fear, and expectation of the things coming on the world, for the powers of the heavens shall be shaken.  
027 `And then they shall see the Son of Man, coming in a cloud, with power and much glory;  
028 and these things beginning to happen bend yourselves back, and lift up your heads, because your redemption doth draw nigh.'  
029 And he spake a simile to them: `See the fig-tree, and all the trees,  
030 when they may now cast forth, having seen, of yourselves ye know that now is the summer nigh;  
031 so also ye, when ye may see these things happening, ye know that near is the reign of God;  
032 verily I say to you -- This generation may not pass away till all may have come to pass;  
033 the heaven and the earth shall pass away, but my words may not pass away.  
034 `And take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts may be weighed down with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and anxieties of life, and suddenly that day may come on you,  
035 for as a snare it shall come on all those dwelling on the face of all the land,  
036 watch ye, then, in every season, praying that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that are about to come to pass, and to stand before the Son of Man.'  
037 And he was during the days in the temple teaching, and during the nights, going forth, he was lodging at the mount called of Olives;  
038 and all the people were coming early unto him in the temple to hear him.  
