001 After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth; 
002 And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto them. 
003 And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers. 
004 And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. 
005 And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. 
006 And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his raiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean: from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. 
007 And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house, named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue. 
008 And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were baptized. 
009 Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace: 
010 For I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in this city. 
011 And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them. 
012 And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat, 
013 Saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law. 
014 And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, reason would that I should bear with you: 
015 But if it be a question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for I will be no judge of such matters. 
016 And he drave them from the judgment seat. 
017 Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of those things. 
018 And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he had a vow. 
019 And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews. 
020 When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, he consented not; 
021 But bade them farewell, saying, I must by all means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus. 
022 And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch. 
023 And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples. 
024 And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus. 
025 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John. 
026 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. 
027 And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come, helped them much which had believed through grace: 
028 For he mightily convinced the Jews, and that publicly, shewing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ. 
