001 Let brotherly love continue. 
002 Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. 
003 Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body. 
004 Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. 
005 Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, `I will never leave you nor forsake you.` 
006 So we can confidently say, `The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?` 
007 Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you the word of God. Consider the outcome of their way of life, and imitate their faith. 
008 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. 
009 Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them. 
010 We have an altar from which those who serve the tent have no right to eat. 
011 For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy places by the high priest as a sacrifice for sin are burned outside the camp. 
012 So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood. 
013 Therefore let us go to him outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured. 
014 For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. 
015 Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. 
016 Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. 
017 Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. 
018 Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things. 
019 I urge you the more earnestly to do this in order that I may be restored to you the sooner. 
020 Now may the God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, 
021 equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
022 I appeal to you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly. 
023 You should know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon. 
024 Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings. 
025 Grace be with all of you. 
