001 Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. 
002 For by it the people of old received their commendation. 
003 By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. 
004 By faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. 
005 By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God. 
006 And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. 
007 By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear constructed an ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. 
008 By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. 
009 By faith he went to live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise. 
010 For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. 
011 By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised. 
012 Therefore from one man, and him as good as dead, were born descendants as many as the stars of heaven and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore. 
013 These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. 
014 For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. 
015 If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. 
016 But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. 
017 By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, 
018 of whom it was said, `Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.` 
019 He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. 
020 By faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau. 
021 By faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff. 
022 By faith Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the exodus of the Israelites and gave directions concerning his bones. 
023 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's edict. 
024 By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, 
025 choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. 
026 He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. 
027 By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. 
028 By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the Destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. 
029 By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as if on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned. 
030 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days. 
031 By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient, because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies. 
032 And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets- 
033 who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 
034 quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. 
035 Women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life. 
036 Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment. 
037 They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated- 
038 of whom the world was not worthy- wandering about in deserts and mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth. 
039 And all these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised, 
040 since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect. 
