001 Therefore we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. 
002 For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, 
003 how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard, 
004 while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. 
005 Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. 
006 It has been testified somewhere, `What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you care for him? 
007 You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honor, 
008 putting everything in subjection under his feet.` Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. 
009 But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. 
010 For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. 
011 For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, 
012 saying, `I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise.` 
013 And again, `I will put my trust in him.` And again, `Behold, I and the children God has given me.` 
014 Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, 
015 and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. 
016 For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. 
017 Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. 
018 For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. 
