001 For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. 
002 Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sin? 
003 But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sin every year. 
004 For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. 
005 Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, `Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body have you prepared for me; 
006 in burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. 
007 Then I said, 'Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book.'` 
008 When he said above, `You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings` (these are offered according to the law), 
009 then he added, `Behold, I have come to do your will.` He abolishes the first in order to establish the second. 
010 And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. 
011 And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. 
012 But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, 
013 waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. 
014 For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. 
015 And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying, 
016 `This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their minds,` 
017 then he adds, `I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.` 
018 Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. 
019 Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, 
020 by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh, 
021 and since we have a great priest over the house of God, 
022 let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. 
023 Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. 
024 And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, 
025 not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near. 
026 For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, 
027 but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. 
028 Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. 
029 How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the Spirit of grace? 
030 For we know him who said, `Vengeance is mine; I will repay.` And again, `The Lord will judge his people.` 
031 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. 
032 But recall the former days when, after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings, 
033 sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated. 
034 For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. 
035 Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. 
036 For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised. 
037 For, `Yet a little while, and the coming one will come and will not delay; 
038 but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.` 
039 But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls. 
