001 And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof shall be three cubits. 
002 And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it with brass. 
003 And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basins, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass. 
004 And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass; and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners thereof. 
005 And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar. 
006 And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with brass. 
007 And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it. 
008 Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make it. 
009 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side: 
010 And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. 
011 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of an hundred cubits long, and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. 
012 And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. 
013 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits. 
014 The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
015 And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
016 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework: and their pillars shall be four, and their sockets four. 
017 All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with silver; their hooks shall be of silver, and their sockets of brass. 
018 The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass. 
019 All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass. 
020 And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always. 
021 In the tabernacle of the congregation without the veil, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel. 
