001 Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints, 
002 for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the people of Macedonia, saying that Achaia has been ready since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them. 
003 But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove vain in this matter, so that you may be ready, as I said you would be. 
004 Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready, we would be humiliated- to say nothing of you- for being so confident. 
005 So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction. 
006 The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. 
007 Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. 
008 And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work. 
009 As it is written, `He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever.` 
010 He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. 
011 You will be enriched in every way for all your generosity, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. 
012 For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God. 
013 By their approval of this service, they will glorify God because of your submission flowing from your confession of the gospel of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others, 
014 while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing grace of God upon you. 
015 Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift! 
