001 Working together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. 
002 For he says, `In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you.` Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation. 
003 We put no obstacle in anyone's way, so that no fault may be found with our ministry, 
004 but as servants of God we commend ourselves in every way: by great endurance, in afflictions, hardships, calamities, 
005 beatings, imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger; 
006 by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love, 
007 by truthful speech, and the power of God; with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left; 
008 through honor and dishonor, through slander and praise. We are treated as impostors, and yet are true; 
009 as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, and yet not killed; 
010 as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing everything. 
011 We have spoken freely to you, Corinthians; our heart is wide open. 
012 You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted in your own affections. 
013 In return (I speak as to children) widen your hearts also. 
014 Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? 
015 What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever? 
016 What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said, `I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. 
017 Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you, 
018 and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.` 
