001 So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
002 Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. 
003 Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. 
004 Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder than he. 
005 When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled. 
006 And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion. 
007 I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom. 
008 But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. 
009 Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand judgment. 
010 Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion. 
011 Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say. 
012 Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you that convinced Job, or that answered his words: 
013 Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man. 
014 Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I answer him with your speeches. 
015 They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking. 
016 When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and answered no more;) 
017 I said, I will answer also my part, I also will shew mine opinion. 
018 For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me. 
019 Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like new bottles. 
020 I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and answer. 
021 Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person, neither let me give flattering titles unto man. 
022 For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker would soon take me away. 
