001 For lo, in those days, and in that time, When I turn back `to' the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem, 
002 Then I have gathered all the nations, And caused them to go down unto the valley of Jehoshaphat, And I have been judged with them there, Concerning My people and Mine inheritance -- Israel, Whom they scattered among nations, And My land they have apportioned.  
003 And for My people they do cast a lot, And they give the young man for an harlot, And the young woman have sold for wine, That they may drink.  
004 And also, what `are' ye to Me, O Tyre and Zidon, And all circuits of Philistia? Recompence are ye rendering unto Me? And if ye are giving recompence to Me, Swiftly, hastily, I turn back your recompence on your head. 
005 In that My silver and My gold ye took, And My desirable things that are good, Ye have brought in to your temples.  
006 And sons of Judah, and sons of Jerusalem, Ye have sold to the sons of Javan, To put them far off from their border.  
007 Lo, I am stirring them up out of the place Whither ye have sold them, And I have turned back your recompence on your head,  
008 And have sold your sons and your daughters Into the hand of the sons of Judah, And they have sold them to Shabeans, Unto a nation far off, for Jehovah hath spoken.  
009 Proclaim ye this among nations, Sanctify a war, stir up the mighty ones, Come nigh, come up, let all the men of war.  
010 Beat your ploughshares to swords, And your pruning-hooks to javelins, Let the weak say, `I `am' mighty.' 
011 Haste, and come in, all ye nations round, And be gathered together, Thither cause to come down, O Jehovah, Thy mighty ones.  
012 Wake and come up let the nations unto the valley of Jehoshaphat, For there I sit to judge all the nations around.  
013 Send ye forth a sickle, For ripened hath harvest, Come in, come down, for filled hath been the press, Overflowed hath wine-presses, For great `is' their wickedness. 
014 Multitudes, multitudes `are' in the valley of decision, For near `is' the day of Jehovah in the valley of decision. 
015 Sun and moon have been black, And stars have gathered up their shining.  
016 And Jehovah from Zion doth roar, And from Jerusalem giveth forth His voice, And shaken have the heavens and earth, And Jehovah `is' a refuge to his people, And a stronghold to sons of Israel. 
017 And ye have known that I `am' Jehovah your God, Dwelling in Zion, My holy mountain, And Jerusalem hath been holy, And strangers do not pass over into it again. 
018 And it hath come to pass, in that day, Drop down do the mountains juice, And the hills do flow `with' milk, And all streams of Judah do go `with' water, And a fountain from the house of Jehovah goeth forth, And hath watered the valley of Shittim. 
019 Egypt a desolation becometh, And Edom a desolation, a wilderness, becometh, For violence `to' sons of Judah, Whose innocent blood they shed in their land. 
020 And Judah to the age doth dwell, And Jerusalem to generation and generation.  
021 And I have declared their blood innocent, `That' I did not declare innocent, And Jehovah is dwelling in Zion! 
