001 But now thus says the LORD, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: `Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine. 
002 When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. 
003 For I am the LORD your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba in exchange for you. 
004 Because you are precious in my eyes, and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life. 
005 Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your offspring from the east, and from the west I will gather you. 
006 I will say to the north, Give up, and to the south, Do not withhold; bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the end of the earth, 
007 everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made.` 
008 Bring out the people who are blind, yet have eyes, who are deaf, yet have ears! 
009 All the nations gather together, and the peoples assemble. Who among them can declare this, and show us the former things? Let them bring their witnesses to prove them right, and let them hear and say, It is true. 
010 `You are my witnesses,` declares the LORD, `and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am he. Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me. 
011 I, I am the LORD, and besides me there is no savior. 
012 I declared and saved and proclaimed, when there was no strange god among you; and you are my witnesses,` declares the LORD, `and I am God. 
013 Also henceforth I am he; there is none who can deliver from my hand; I work, and who can turn it back?` 
014 Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: `For your sake I send to Babylon and bring them all down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships in which they rejoice. 
015 I am the LORD, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.` 
016 Thus says the LORD, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters, 
017 who brings forth chariot and horse, army and warrior; they lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched like a wick: 
018 `Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old. 
019 Behold, I am doing a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. 
020 The wild beasts will honor me, the jackals and the ostriches, for I give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people, 
021 the people whom I formed for myself that they might declare my praise. 
022 `Yet you did not call upon me, O Jacob; but you have been weary of me, O Israel! 
023 You have not brought me your sheep for burnt offerings, or honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you with offerings, or wearied you with frankincense. 
024 You have not bought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have burdened me with your sins; you have wearied me with your iniquities. 
025 `I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. 
026 Put me in remembrance; let us argue together; set forth your case, that you may be proved right. 
027 Your first father sinned, and your mediators transgressed against me. 
028 Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary, and deliver Jacob to utter destruction and Israel to reviling. 
