001 Behold, a king will reign in righteousness, and princes will rule in justice. 
002 Each will be like a hiding place from the wind, a shelter from the storm, like streams of water in a dry place, like the shade of a great rock in a weary land. 
003 Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed, and the ears of those who hear will give attention. 
004 The heart of the hasty will understand and know, and the tongue of the stammerers will hasten to speak distinctly. 
005 The fool will no more be called noble, nor the scoundrel said to be honorable. 
006 For the fool speaks folly, and his heart is busy with iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the LORD, to leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of drink. 
007 As for the scoundrel- his devices are evil; he plans wicked schemes to ruin the poor with lying words, even when the plea of the needy is right. 
008 But he who is noble plans noble things, and on noble things he stands. 
009 Rise up, you women who are at ease, hear my voice; you complacent daughters, give ear to my speech. 
010 In little more than a year you will shudder, you complacent women; for the grape harvest fails, the fruit harvest will not come. 
011 Tremble, you women who are at ease, shudder, you complacent ones; strip, and make yourselves bare, and tie sackcloth around your waist. 
012 Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine, 
013 for the soil of my people growing up in thorns and briers, yes, for all the joyous houses in the exultant city. 
014 For the palace is forsaken, the populous city deserted; the hill and the watchtower will become dens forever, a joy of wild donkeys, a pasture of flocks; 
015 until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is deemed a forest. 
016 Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness abide in the fruitful field. 
017 And the effect of righteousness will be peace, and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust forever. 
018 My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places. 
019 And it will hail when the forest falls down, and the city will be utterly laid low. 
020 Happy are you who sow beside all waters, who let the feet of the ox and the donkey range free. 
