001 Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion; put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city; for there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean. 
002 Shake yourself from the dust and arise; be seated, O Jerusalem; loose the bonds from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. 
003 For thus says the LORD: `You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money.` 
004 For thus says the Lord GOD: `My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing. 
005 Now therefore what have I here,` declares the LORD, `seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Their rulers wail,` declares the LORD, `and continually all the day my name is despised. 
006 Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore in that day they shall know that it is I who speak; here am I.` 
007 How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, `Your God reigns.` 
008 The voice of your watchmen- they lift up their voice; together they sing for joy; for eye to eye they see the return of the LORD to Zion. 
009 Break forth together into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the LORD has comforted his people; he has redeemed Jerusalem. 
010 The LORD has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. 
011 Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing; go out from the midst of her; purify yourselves, you who bear the vessels of the LORD. 
012 For you shall not go out in haste, and you shall not go in flight, for the LORD will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard. 
013 Behold, my servant shall act wisely; he shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted. 
014 As many were astonished at you- his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind- 
015 so shall he sprinkle many nations; kings shall shut their mouths because of him; for that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard they understand. 
