001 Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights; I have put my Spirit upon him; he will bring forth justice to the nations. 
002 He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street; 
003 a bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench; he will faithfully bring forth justice. 
004 He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth; and the coastlands wait for his law. 
005 Thus says God, the LORD, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it: 
006 `I am the LORD; I have called you in righteousness; I will take you by the hand and keep you; I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations, 
007 to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness. 
008 I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols. 
009 Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare; before they spring forth I tell you of them.` 
010 Sing to the LORD a new song, his praise from the end of the earth, you who go down to the sea, and all that fills it, the coastlands and their inhabitants. 
011 Let the desert and its cities lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar inhabits; let the habitants of Sela sing for joy, let them shout from the top of the mountains. 
012 Let them give glory to the LORD, and declare his praise in the coastlands. 
013 The LORD goes out like a mighty man, like a man of war he stirs up his zeal; he cries out, he shouts aloud, he shows himself mighty against his foes. 
014 For a long time I have held my peace; I have kept still and restrained myself; now I will cry out like a woman in labor; I will gasp and pant. 
015 I will lay waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their vegetation; I will turn the rivers into islands, and dry up the pools. 
016 And I will lead the blind in a way that they do not know, in paths that they have not known I will guide them. I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them. 
017 They are turned back and utterly put to shame, who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images, `You are our gods.` 
018 Hear, you deaf, and look, you blind, that you may see! 
019 Who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is blind as my dedicated one, or blind as the servant of the LORD? 
020 He sees many things, but does not observe them; his ears are open, but he does not hear. 
021 The LORD was pleased, for his righteousness' sake, to magnify his law and make it glorious. 
022 But this is a people plundered and looted; they are all of them trapped in holes and hidden in prisons; they have become plunder with none to rescue, spoil with none to say, `Restore!` 
023 Who among you will give ear to this, will attend and listen for the time to come? 
024 Who gave up Jacob to the looter, and Israel to the plunderers? Was it not the LORD, against whom we have sinned, in whose ways they would not walk, and whose law they would not obey? 
025 So he poured on him the heat of his anger and the might of battle; it set him on fire all around, but he did not understand; it burned him up, but he did not take it to heart. 
