001 Behold, the LORD will empty the earth and make it desolate, and he will twist its surface and scatter its inhabitants. 
002 And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the slave, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the creditor, so with the debtor. 
003 The earth shall be utterly empty and utterly plundered; for the LORD has spoken this word. 
004 The earth mourns and withers; the world languishes and withers; the highest people of the earth languish. 
005 The earth lies defiled under its inhabitants; for they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, broken the everlasting covenant. 
006 Therefore a curse devours the earth, and its inhabitants suffer for their guilt; therefore the inhabitants of the earth are scorched, and few men are left. 
007 The wine mourns, the vine languishes, all the merry-hearted sigh. 
008 The mirth of the tambourines is stilled, the noise of the jubilant has ceased, the mirth of the lyre is stilled. 
009 No more do they drink wine with singing; strong drink is bitter to those who drink it. 
010 The wasted city is broken down; every house is shut up so that none can enter. 
011 There is an outcry in the streets for lack of wine; all joy has grown dark; the gladness of the earth is banished. 
012 Desolation is left in the city; the gates are battered into ruins. 
013 For thus it shall be in the midst of the earth among the nations, as when an olive tree is beaten, as at the gleaning when the grape harvest is done. 
014 They lift up their voices, they sing for joy; over the majesty of the LORD they shout from the west. 
015 Therefore in the east give glory to the LORD; in the coastlands of the sea, give glory to the name of the LORD, the God of Israel. 
016 From the ends of the earth we hear songs of praise, of glory to the Righteous One. But I say, `I waste away, I waste away. Woe is me! For the traitors have betrayed, with betrayal the traitors have betrayed.` 
017 Terror and the pit and the snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth! 
018 He who flees at the sound of the terror shall fall into the pit, and he who climbs out of the pit shall be caught in the snare. For the windows of heaven are opened, and the foundations of the earth tremble. 
019 The earth is utterly broken, the earth is split apart, the earth is violently shaken. 
020 The earth staggers like a drunken man; it sways like a hut; its transgression lies heavy upon it, and it falls, and will not rise again. 
021 On that day the LORD will punish the host of heaven, in heaven, and the kings of the earth, on the earth. 
022 They will be gathered together as prisoners in a pit; they will be shut up in a prison, and after many days they will be punished. 
023 Then the moon will be confounded and the sun ashamed, for the LORD of hosts reigns on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and his glory will be before his elders. 
