001 In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah the king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it. 
002 When the house of David was told, `Syria is in league with Ephraim,` the heart of Ahaz and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind. 
003 And the LORD said to Isaiah, `Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shear-jashub your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field. 
004 And say to him, 'Be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands, at the fierce anger of Rezin and Syria and the son of Remaliah. 
005 Because Syria, with Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, has devised evil against you, saying, 
006 `Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabeel as king in the midst of it,` 
007 thus says the Lord GOD: `' It shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass. 
008 For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin. (Within sixty-five years Ephraim will be broken to pieces so that it will no longer be a people.) 
009 `'And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all.'` 
010 Again the LORD spoke to Ahaz, 
011 `Ask a sign of the LORD your God; let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven.` 
012 But Ahaz said, `I will not ask, and I will not put the LORD to the test.` 
013 And he said, `Hear then, O house of David! Is it too little for you to weary men, that you weary my God also? 
014 Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel. 
015 He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good. 
016 For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted. 
017 The LORD will bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father's house such days as have not come since the day that Ephraim departed from Judah- the king of Assyria.` 
018 In that day the LORD will whistle for the fly that is at the end of the streams of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. 
019 And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines, and in the clefts of the rocks, and on all the thornbushes, and on all the pastures. 
020 In that day the Lord will shave with a razor that is hired beyond the River- with the king of Assyria- the head and the hair of the feet, and it will sweep away the beard also. 
021 In that day a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep, 
022 and because of the abundance of milk that they give, he will eat curds, for everyone who is left in the land will eat curds and honey. 
023 In that day every place where there used to be a thousand vines, worth a thousand shekels of silver, will become briers and thorns. 
024 With bow and arrows a man will come there, for all the land will be briers and thorns. 
025 And as for all the hills that used to be hoed with a hoe, you will not come there for fear of briers and thorns, but they will become a place where cattle are let loose and where sheep tread. 
