001 For behold, the Lord GOD of hosts is taking away from Jerusalem and from Judah support and supply, all support of bread, and all support of water; 
002 the mighty man and the soldier, the judge and the prophet, the diviner and the elder, 
003 the captain of fifty and the man of rank, the counselor and the skillful magician and the expert in charms. 
004 And I will make boys their princes, and infants shall rule over them. 
005 And the people will oppress one another, every one his fellow and every one his neighbor; the youth will be insolent to the elder, and the despised to the honorable. 
006 For a man will take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying: `You have a cloak; you shall be our leader, and this heap of ruins shall be under your rule`; 
007 in that day he will speak out, saying: `I will not be a healer; in my house there is neither bread nor cloak; you shall not make me leader of the people.` 
008 For Jerusalem has stumbled, and Judah has fallen, because their speech and their deeds are against the LORD, defying his glorious presence. 
009 For the look on their faces bears witness against them; they proclaim their sin like Sodom; they do not hide it. Woe to them! For they have brought evil on themselves. 
010 Tell the righteous that it shall be well with them, for they shall eat the fruit of their deeds. 
011 Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him, for what his hands have dealt out shall be done to him. 
012 My people- infants are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, your guides mislead you and they have swallowed up the course of your paths. 
013 The LORD has taken his place to contend; he stands to judge peoples. 
014 The LORD will enter into judgment with the elders and princes of his people: `It is you who have devoured the vineyard, the spoil of the poor is in your houses. 
015 What do you mean by crushing my people, by grinding the face of the poor?` declares the Lord GOD of hosts. 
016 The LORD said: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty and walk with outstretched necks, glancing wantonly with their eyes, mincing along as they go, tinkling with their feet, 
017 therefore the Lord will strike with a scab the heads of the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will lay bare their secret parts. 
018 In that day the Lord will take away the finery of the anklets, the headbands, and the crescents; 
019 the pendants, the bracelets, and the scarves; 
020 the headdresses, the armlets, the sashes, the perfume boxes, and the amulets; 
021 the signet rings and nose rings; 
022 the festal robes, the mantles, the cloaks, and the handbags; 
023 the mirrors, the linen garments, the turbans, and the veils. 
024 Instead of perfume there will be rottenness; and instead of a belt, a rope; and instead of well-set hair, baldness; and instead of a rich robe, a skirt of sackcloth; and branding instead of beauty. 
025 Your men shall fall by the sword and your mighty men in battle. 
026 And her gates shall lament and mourn; empty, she shall sit on the ground. 
