001 And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. 
002 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. 
003 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours. 
004 And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him. 
005 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they hated him yet the more. 
006 And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed: 
007 For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. 
008 And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words. 
009 And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me. 
010 And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth? 
011 And his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying. 
012 And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. 
013 And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I. 
014 And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. 
015 And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? 
016 And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks. 
017 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan. 
018 And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. 
019 And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. 
020 Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams. 
021 And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands; and said, Let us not kill him. 
022 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again. 
023 And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him; 
024 And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the pit was empty, there was no water in it. 
025 And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt. 
026 And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood? 
027 Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content. 
028 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt. 
029 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes. 
030 And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not; and I, whither shall I go? 
031 And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood; 
032 And they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son's coat or no. 
033 And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. 
034 And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days. 
035 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him. 
036 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard. 
