001 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die. 
002 And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb? 
003 And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her. 
004 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her. 
005 And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son. 
006 And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan. 
007 And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son. 
008 And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali. 
009 When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife. 
010 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son. 
011 And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad. 
012 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son. 
013 And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed: and she called his name Asher. 
014 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes. 
015 And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's mandrakes. 
016 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that night. 
017 And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son. 
018 And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar. 
019 And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son. 
020 And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she called his name Zebulun. 
021 And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah. 
022 And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb. 
023 And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away my reproach: 
024 And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD shall add to me another son. 
025 And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country. 
026 Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee. 
027 And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath blessed me for thy sake. 
028 And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it. 
029 And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me. 
030 For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also? 
031 And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock. 
032 I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such shall be my hire. 
033 So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me. 
034 And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word. 
035 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstreaked and spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons. 
036 And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks. 
037 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chestnut tree; and pilled white streaks in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods. 
038 And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that they should conceive when they came to drink. 
039 And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle ringstreaked, speckled, and spotted. 
040 And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstreaked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban's cattle. 
041 And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods. 
042 But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's. 
043 And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses. 
