001 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth. 
002 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. 
003 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. 
004 And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? 
005 Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing. 
006 And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words. 
007 And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: 
008 Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold? 
009 With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen. 
010 And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless. 
011 Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack. 
012 And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. 
013 Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city. 
014 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground. 
015 And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine? 
016 And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we are my lord's servants, both we, and he also with whom the cup is found. 
017 And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace unto your father. 
018 Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh. 
019 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother? 
020 And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him. 
021 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him. 
022 And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die. 
023 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more. 
024 And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord. 
025 And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food. 
026 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, except our youngest brother be with us. 
027 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons: 
028 And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since: 
029 And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. 
030 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life; 
031 It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave. 
032 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever. 
033 Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren. 
034 For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father. 
