001 And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech. 
002 And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there. 
003 And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar. 
004 And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. 
005 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded. 
006 And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. 
007 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. 
008 So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city. 
009 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth. 
010 These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 
011 And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
012 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 
013 And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. 
014 And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 
015 And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. 
016 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 
017 And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
018 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 
019 And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters. 
020 And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 
021 And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. 
022 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 
023 And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
024 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 
025 And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters. 
026 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
027 Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot. 
028 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees. 
029 And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah. 
030 But Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
031 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there. 
032 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran. 
