001 It was now two days before the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to arrest him by stealth and kill him, 
002 for they said, `Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar from the people.` 
003 And while he was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he was reclining at table, a woman came with an alabaster flask of ointment of pure nard, very costly, and she broke the flask and poured it over his head. 
004 There were some who said to themselves indignantly, `Why was the ointment wasted like that? 
005 For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor.` And they scolded her. 
006 But Jesus said, `Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me. 
007 For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want, you can do good for them. But you will not always have me. 
008 She has done what she could; she has anointed my body beforehand for burial. 
009 And truly, I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her.` 
010 Then Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them. 
011 And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. And he sought an opportunity to betray him. 
012 And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, `Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?` 
013 And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, `Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him, 
014 and wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, 'The Teacher says, Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?' 
015 And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready; there prepare for us.` 
016 And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover. 
017 And when it was evening, he came with the twelve. 
018 And as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, `Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me.` 
019 They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another, `Is it I?` 
020 He said to them, `It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me. 
021 For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.` 
022 And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them, and said, `Take; this is my body.` 
023 And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it. 
024 And he said to them, `This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. 
025 Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.` 
026 And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
027 And Jesus said to them, `You will all fall away, for it is written, 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.' 
028 But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee.` 
029 Peter said to him, `Even though they all fall away, I will not.` 
030 And Jesus said to him, `Truly, I tell you, this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.` 
031 But he said emphatically, `If I must die with you, I will not deny you.` And they all said the same. 
032 And they went to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, `Sit here while I pray.` 
033 And he took with him Peter and James and John, and began to be greatly distressed and troubled. 
034 And he said to them, `My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch.` 
035 And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. 
036 And he said, `Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will.` 
037 And he came and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, `Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour? 
038 Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.` 
039 And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words. 
040 And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. 
041 And he came the third time and said to them, `Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? It is enough; the hour has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
042 Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand.` 
043 And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. 
044 Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, `The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead him away under guard.` 
045 And when he came, he went up to him at once and said, `Rabbi!` And he kissed him. 
046 And they laid hands on him and seized him. 
047 But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. 
048 And Jesus said to them, `Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me? 
049 Day after day I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But let the Scriptures be fulfilled.` 
050 And they all left him and fled. 
051 And a young man followed him, with nothing but a linen cloth about his body. And they seized him, 
052 but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked. 
053 And they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together. 
054 And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he was sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire. 
055 Now the chief priests and the whole Council were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they found none. 
056 For many bore false witness against him, but their testimony did not agree. 
057 And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying, 
058 `We heard him say, 'I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another, not made with hands.'` 
059 Yet even about this their testimony did not agree. 
060 And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, `Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you?` 
061 But he remained silent and made no answer. Again the high priest asked him, `Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?` 
062 And Jesus said, `I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven.` 
063 And the high priest tore his garments and said, `What further witnesses do we need? 
064 You have heard his blasphemy. What is your decision?` And they all condemned him as deserving death. 
065 And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to strike him, saying to him, `Prophesy!` And the guards received him with blows. 
066 And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came, 
067 and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, `You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.` 
068 But he denied it, saying, `I neither know nor understand what you mean.` And he went out into the gateway and the rooster crowed. 
069 And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, `This man is one of them.` 
070 But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, `Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean.` 
071 But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, `I do not know this man of whom you speak.` 
072 And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, `Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.` And he broke down and wept. 
