001 And as soon as it was morning, the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole Council. And they bound Jesus and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate. 
002 And Pilate asked him, `Are you the King of the Jews?` And he answered him, `You have said so.` 
003 And the chief priests accused him of many things. 
004 And Pilate again asked him, `Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you.` 
005 But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed. 
006 Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked. 
007 And among the rebels in prison, who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas. 
008 And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them. 
009 And he answered them, saying, `Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?` 
010 For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up. 
011 But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release for them Barabbas instead. 
012 And Pilate again said to them, `Then what shall I do with the man you call the King of the Jews?` 
013 And they cried out again, `Crucify him.` 
014 And Pilate said to them, `Why, what evil has he done?` But they shouted all the more, `Crucify him.` 
015 So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. 
016 And the soldiers led him away inside the palace (that is, the governor's headquarters), and they called together the whole battalion. 
017 And they clothed him in a purple cloak, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on him. 
018 And they began to salute him, `Hail, King of the Jews!` 
019 And they were striking his head with a reed and spitting on him and kneeling down in homage to him. 
020 And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes on him. And they led him out to crucify him. 
021 And they compelled a passerby, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross. 
022 And they brought him to the place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull). 
023 And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. 
024 And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them, to decide what each should take. 
025 And it was the third hour when they crucified him. 
026 And the inscription of the charge against him read, `The King of the Jews.` 
027 And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left. 
028 null 
029 And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, `Aha! You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, 
030 save yourself, and come down from the cross!` 
031 So also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, `He saved others; he cannot save himself. 
032 Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe.` Those who were crucified with him also reviled him. 
033 And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. 
034 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, `Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?` which means, `My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?` 
035 And some of the bystanders hearing it said, `Behold, he is calling Elijah.` 
036 And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink, saying, `Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down.` 
037 And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. 
038 And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. 
039 And when the centurion, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, `Truly this man was the Son of God!` 
040 There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome. 
041 When he was in Galilee, they followed him and ministered to him, and there were also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem. 
042 And when evening had come, since it was the day of Preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath, 
043 Joseph of Arimathea, a respected member of the Council, who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. 
044 Pilate was surprised to hear that he should have already died. And summoning the centurion, he asked him whether he was already dead. 
045 And when he learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the corpse to Joseph. 
046 And Joseph bought a linen shroud, and taking him down, wrapped him in the linen shroud and laid him in a tomb that had been cut out of the rock. And he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb. 
047 Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid. 
