001 Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand. 
002 And they watched Jesus, to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. 
003 And he said to the man with the withered hand, `Come here.` 
004 And he said to them, `Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?` But they were silent. 
005 And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, `Stretch out your hand.` He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. 
006 The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him, how to destroy him. 
007 Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great crowd followed, from Galilee and Judea 
008 and Jerusalem and Idumea and from beyond the Jordan and from around Tyre and Sidon. When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him. 
009 And he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they crush him, 
010 for he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him to touch him. 
011 And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, `You are the Son of God.` 
012 And he strictly ordered them not to make him known. 
013 And he went up on the mountain and called to him those whom he desired, and they came to him. 
014 And he appointed twelve (whom he also named apostles) so that they might be with him and he might send them out to preach 
015 and have authority to cast out demons. 
016 He appointed the twelve: Simon (to whom he gave the name Peter); 
017 James the son of Zebedee and John the brother of James (to whom he gave the name Boanerges, that is, Sons of Thunder); 
018 Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean, 
019 and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. 
020 Then he went home, and the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat. 
021 And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, `He is out of his mind.` 
022 And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, `He is possessed by Beelzebul,` and `by the prince of demons he casts out the demons.` 
023 And he called them to him and said to them in parables, `How can Satan cast out Satan? 
024 If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
025 And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. 
026 And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end. 
027 But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man. Then indeed he may plunder his house. 
028 `Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter, 
029 but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin`- 
030 for they had said, `He has an unclean spirit.` 
031 And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside they sent to him and called him. 
032 And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, `Your mother and your brothers are outside, seeking you.` 
033 And he answered them, `Who are my mother and my brothers?` 
034 And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, `Here are my mother and my brothers! 
035 Whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother.` 
