001 And he said to them, `Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power.` 
002 And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. And he was transfigured before them, 
003 and his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them. 
004 And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. 
005 And Peter said to Jesus, `Rabbi, it is good that we are here. Let us make three tents, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah.` 
006 For he did not know what to say, for they were terrified. 
007 And a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, `This is my beloved Son; listen to him.` 
008 And suddenly, looking around, they no longer saw anyone with them but Jesus only. 
009 And as they were coming down the mountain, he charged them to tell no one what they had seen, until the Son of Man had risen from the dead. 
010 So they kept the matter to themselves, questioning what this rising from the dead might mean. 
011 And they asked him, `Why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?` 
012 And he said to them, `Elijah does come first to restore all things. And how is it written of the Son of Man that he should suffer many things and be treated with contempt? 
013 But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him.` 
014 And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them. 
015 And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed and ran up to him and greeted him. 
016 And he asked them, `What are you arguing about with them?` 
017 And someone from the crowd answered him, `Teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that makes him mute. 
018 And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid. So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able.` 
019 And he answered them, `O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me.` 
020 And they brought the boy to him. And when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth. 
021 And Jesus asked his father, `How long has this been happening to him?` And he said, `From childhood. 
022 And it has often cast him into fire and into water, to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.` 
023 And Jesus said to him, `If you can! All things are possible for one who believes.` 
024 Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, `I believe; help my unbelief!` 
025 And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, `You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again.` 
026 And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse, so that most of them said, `He is dead.` 
027 But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. 
028 And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, `Why could we not cast it out?` 
029 And he said to them, `This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer.` 
030 They went on from there and passed through Galilee. And he did not want anyone to know, 
031 for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, `The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And when he is killed, after three days he will rise.` 
032 But they did not understand the saying, and were afraid to ask him. 
033 And they came to Capernaum. And when he was in the house he asked them, `What were you discussing on the way?` 
034 But they kept silent, for on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest. 
035 And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them, `If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all.` 
036 And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said to them, 
037 `Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me.` 
038 John said to him, `Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we tried to stop him, because he was not following us.` 
039 But Jesus said, `Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me. 
040 For the one who is not against us is for us. 
041 For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward. 
042 `Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. 
043 And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire. 
044 null 
045 And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell. 
046 null 
047 And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell, 
048 'where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.' 
049 For everyone will be salted with fire. 
050 Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its saltiness, how will you make it salty again? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.` 
