001 And he bringeth me forth unto the outer court, the way northward, and he bringeth me in unto the chamber that `is' over-against the separate place, and that `is' over-against the building at the north. 
002 At the front of the length `is' a hundred cubits `at' the north opening, and the breadth fifty cubits. 
003 Over-against the twenty `cubits' that are to the inner court, and over-against the pavement that `is' to the outer court, `is' gallery over-against gallery, in the three `storeys'. 
004 And at the front of the chambers `is' a walk of ten cubits in breadth unto the inner part, a way of one cubit, and their openings `are' at the north. 
005 And the upper chambers `are' short, for the galleries contain more than these, than the lower, and than the middle one, of the building; 
006 for they `are' threefold, and they have no pillars as the pillars of the court, therefore it hath been kept back -- more than the lower and than the middle one -- from the ground. 
007 As to the wall that `is' at the outside, over-against the chambers, the way of the outer-court at the front of the chambers, its length `is' fifty cubits; 
008 for the length of the chambers that `are' to the outer court `is' fifty cubits, and of those on the front of the temple a hundred cubits. 
009 And under these chambers `is' the entrance from the east, in one's going into them from the outer court. 
010 In the breadth of the wall of the court eastward, unto the front of the separate place, and unto the front of the building, `are' chambers. 
011 And the way before them `is' as the appearance of the chambers that `are' northward, according to their length so `is' their breadth, and all their outlets, and according to their fashions, and according to their openings. 
012 And according to the openings of the chambers that `are' southward `is' an opening at the head of the way, the way directly in the front of the wall eastward in entering them. 
013 And he saith unto me, `The north chambers, the south chambers, that `are' at the front of the separate place, they `are' holy chambers, where the priests (who `are' near to Jehovah) eat the most holy things, there they place the most holy things, and the present, and the sin-offering, and the guilt-offering, for the place `is' holy. 
014 In the priests' going in, they come not out from the sanctuary unto the outer court, and there they place their garments with which they minister, for they `are' holy, and have put on other garments, and have drawn near unto that which `is' for the people.' 
015 And he hath finished the measurements of the inner house, and hath brought me forth the way of the gate whose front `is' eastward, and he hath measured it all round about. 
016 He hath measured the east side with the measuring-reed, five hundred reeds, with the measuring-reed round about.  
017 He hath measured the north side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about.  
018 The south side he hath measured, five hundred reeds, with the measuring-reed.  
019 He hath turned round unto the west side, he hath measured five hundred reeds with the measuring-reed.  
020 At the four sides he hath measured it, a wall `is' to it all round about, the length five hundred, and the breadth five hundred, to separate between the holy and the profane place. 
