001 Balances of deceit `are' an abomination to Jehovah, And a perfect weight `is' His delight. 
002 Pride hath come, and shame cometh, And with the lowly `is' wisdom. 
003 The integrity of the upright leadeth them, And the perverseness of the treacherous destroyeth them.  
004 Wealth profiteth not in a day of wrath, And righteousness delivereth from death.  
005 The righteousness of the perfect maketh right his way, And by his wickedness doth the wicked fall.  
006 The righteousness of the upright delivereth them, And in mischief the treacherous are captured.  
007 In the death of a wicked man, hope perisheth, And the expectation of the iniquitous hath been lost.  
008 The righteous from distress is drawn out, And the wicked goeth in instead of him.  
009 With the mouth a hypocrite corrupteth his friend, And by knowledge the righteous are drawn out.  
010 In the good of the righteous a city exulteth, And in the destruction of the wicked `is' singing. 
011 By the blessing of the upright is a city exalted, And by the mouth of the wicked thrown down.  
012 Whoso is despising his neighbour lacketh heart, And a man of understanding keepeth silence.  
013 A busybody is revealing secret counsel, And the faithful of spirit is covering the matter.  
014 Without counsels do a people fall, And deliverance `is' in a multitude of counsellors. 
015 Evil `one' suffereth when he hath been surety `for' a stranger, And whoso is hating suretyship is confident. 
016 A gracious woman retaineth honour, And terrible `men' retain riches. 
017 A kind man is rewarding his own soul, And the fierce is troubling his own flesh.  
018 The wicked is getting a lying wage, And whoso is sowing righteousness -- a true reward.  
019 Rightly `is' righteousness for life, And whoso is pursuing evil -- for his own death. 
020 An abomination to Jehovah `are' the perverse of heart, And the perfect of the way `are' His delight. 
021 Hand to hand, the wicked is not acquitted, And the seed of the righteous hath escaped.  
022 A ring of gold in the nose of a sow -- A fair woman and stubborn of behaviour.  
023 The desire of the righteous `is' only good, The hope of the wicked `is' transgression. 
024 There is who is scattering, and yet is increased, And who is keeping back from uprightness, only to want.  
025 A liberal soul is made fat, And whoso is watering, he also is watered.  
026 Whoso is withholding corn, the people execrate him, And a blessing `is' for the head of him who is selling. 
027 Whoso is earnestly seeking good Seeketh a pleasing thing, And whoso is seeking evil -- it meeteth him.  
028 Whoso is confident in his wealth he falleth, And as a leaf, the righteous flourish.  
029 Whoso is troubling his own house inheriteth wind, And a servant `is' the fool to the wise of heart. 
030 The fruit of the righteous `is' a tree of life, And whoso is taking souls `is' wise. 
031 Lo, the righteous in the earth is recompensed, Surely also the wicked and the sinner!  
