001 The wicked have fled and there is no pursuer. And the righteous as a young lion is confident.  
002 By the transgression of a land many `are' its heads. And by an intelligent man, Who knoweth right -- it is prolonged. 
003 A man -- poor and oppressing the weak, `Is' a sweeping rain, and there is no bread. 
004 Those forsaking the law praise the wicked, Those keeping the law plead against them.  
005 Evil men understand not judgment, And those seeking Jehovah understand all.  
006 Better `is' the poor walking in his integrity, Than the perverse of ways who is rich. 
007 Whoso is keeping the law is an intelligent son, And a friend of gluttons, Doth cause his father to blush.  
008 Whoso is multiplying his wealth by biting and usury, For one favouring the poor doth gather it.  
009 Whoso is turning his ear from hearing the law, Even his prayer `is' an abomination. 
010 Whoso is causing the upright to err in an evil way, Into his own pit he doth fall, And the perfect do inherit good.  
011 A rich man is wise in his own eyes, And the intelligent poor searcheth him.  
012 In the exulting of the righteous the glory `is' abundant, And in the rising of the wicked man is apprehensive. 
013 Whoso is covering his transgressions prospereth not, And he who is confessing and forsaking hath mercy.  
014 O the happiness of a man fearing continually, And whoso is hardening his heart falleth into evil.  
015 A growling lion, and a ranging bear, `Is' the wicked ruler over a poor people. 
016 A leader lacking understanding multiplieth oppressions, Whoso is hating dishonest gain prolongeth days.  
017 A man oppressed with the blood of a soul, Unto the pit fleeth, none taketh hold on him.  
018 Whoso is walking uprightly is saved, And the perverted of ways falleth at once.  
019 Whoso is tilling his ground is satisfied `with' bread, And whoso is pursuing vanity, Is filled `with' poverty. 
020 A stedfast man hath multiplied blessings, And whoso is hasting to be rich is not acquitted.  
021 To discern faces is not good, And for a piece of bread doth a man transgress.  
022 Troubled for wealth `is' the man `with' an evil eye, And he knoweth not that want doth meet him. 
023 Whoso is reproving a man afterwards findeth grace, More than a flatterer with the tongue.  
024 Whoso is robbing his father, or his mother, And is saying, `It is not transgression,' A companion he is to a destroyer.  
025 Whoso is proud in soul stirreth up contention, And whoso is trusting on Jehovah is made fat.  
026 Whoso is trusting in his heart is a fool, And whoso is walking in wisdom is delivered.  
027 Whoso is giving to the poor hath no lack, And whoso is hiding his eyes multiplied curses.  
028 In the rising of the wicked a man is hidden, And in their destruction the righteous multiply!  
