001 If, then, ye were raised with the Christ, the things above seek ye, where the Christ is, on the right hand of God seated,  
002 the things above mind ye, not the things upon the earth,  
003 for ye did die, and your life hath been hid with the Christ in God;  
004 when the Christ -- our life -- may be manifested, then also we with him shall be manifested in glory.  
005 Put to death, then, your members that `are' upon the earth -- whoredom, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and the covetousness, which is idolatry -- 
006 because of which things cometh the anger of God upon the sons of the disobedience,  
007 in which also ye -- ye did walk once, when ye lived in them;  
008 but now put off, even ye, the whole -- anger, wrath, malice, evil-speaking, filthy talking -- out of your mouth.  
009 Lie not one to another, having put off the old man with his practices,  
010 and having put on the new, which is renewed in regard to knowledge, after the image of Him who did create him;  
011 where there is not Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, foreigner, Scythian, servant, freeman -- but the all and in all -- Christ.  
012 Put on, therefore, as choice ones of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humble-mindedness, meekness, long-suffering,  
013 forbearing one another, and forgiving each other, if any one with any one may have a quarrel, as also the Christ did forgive you -- so also ye;  
014 and above all these things, `have' love, which is a bond of the perfection, 
015 and let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye were called in one body, and become thankful.  
016 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing each other, in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, in grace singing in your hearts to the Lord;  
017 and all, whatever ye may do in word or in work, `do' all things in the name of the Lord Jesus -- giving thanks to the God and Father, through him. 
018 The wives! be subject to your own husbands, as is fit in the Lord;  
019 the husbands! love your wives, and be not bitter with them;  
020 the children! obey the parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing to the Lord;  
021 the fathers! vex not your children, lest they be discouraged.  
022 The servants! obey in all things those who are masters according to the flesh, not in eye-service as men-pleasers, but in simplicity of heart, fearing God;  
023 and all, whatever ye may do -- out of soul work -- as to the Lord, and not to men,  
024 having known that from the Lord ye shall receive the recompense of the inheritance -- for the Lord Christ ye serve;  
025 and he who is doing unrighteously shall receive what he did unrighteously, and there is no acceptance of persons.  
