001 And he said to his disciples, `Temptations to sin are sure to come, but woe to the one through whom they come! 
002 It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea than that he should cause one of these little ones to sin. 
003 Pay attention to yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him, 
004 and if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, 'I repent,' you must forgive him.` 
005 The apostles said to the Lord, `Increase our faith!` 
006 And the Lord said, `If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, 'Be uprooted and planted in the sea,' and it would obey you. 
007 `Will any one of you who has a servant plowing or keeping sheep say to him when he has come in from the field, 'Come at once and sit down at table'? 
008 Will he not rather say to him, 'Prepare supper for me, and dress properly, and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you will eat and drink'? 
009 Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded? 
010 So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded, say, 'We are unworthy servants; we have only done what was our duty.'` 
011 On the way to Jerusalem he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. 
012 And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers, who stood at a distance 
013 and lifted up their voices, saying, `Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.` 
014 When he saw them he said to them, `Go and show yourselves to the priests.` And as they went they were cleansed. 
015 Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice; 
016 and he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan. 
017 Then Jesus answered, `Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? 
018 Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner?` 
019 And he said to him, `Rise and go your way; your faith has made you well.` 
020 Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered them, `The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed, 
021 nor will they say, 'Look, here it is!' or 'There!' for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you.` 
022 And he said to the disciples, `The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. 
023 And they will say to you, 'Look, there!' or 'Look, here!' Do not go out or follow them. 
024 For as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day. 
025 But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 
026 Just as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man. 
027 They were eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all. 
028 Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot- they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building, 
029 but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed them all- 
030 so will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed. 
031 On that day, let the one who is on the housetop, with his goods in the house, not come down to take them away, and likewise let the one who is in the field not turn back. 
032 Remember Lot's wife. 
033 Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it. 
034 I tell you, in that night there will be two in one bed. One will be taken and the other left. 
035 There will be two women grinding together. One will be taken and the other left.` 
036 null 
037 And they said to him, `Where, Lord?` He said to them, `Where the corpse is, there the vultures will gather.` 
