001 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene, 
002 during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness. 
003 And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 
004 As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, `The voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. 
005 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level ways, 
006 and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.` 
007 He said therefore to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, `You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? 
008 Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father.' For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. 
009 Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.` 
010 And the crowds asked him, `What then shall we do?` 
011 And he answered them, `Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise.` 
012 Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, `Teacher, what shall we do?` 
013 And he said to them, `Collect no more than you are authorized to do.` 
014 Soldiers also asked him, `And we, what shall we do?` And he said to them, `Do not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages.` 
015 As the people were in expectation, and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John, whether he might be the Christ, 
016 John answered them all, saying, `I baptize you with water, but he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. 
017 His winnowing fork is in his hand, to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.` 
018 So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people. 
019 But Herod the tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the evil things that Herod had done, 
020 added this to them all, that he locked up John in prison. 
021 Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, 
022 and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form, like a dove; and a voice came from heaven, `You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased.` 
023 Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli, 
024 the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph, 
025 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai, 
026 the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda, 
027 the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, 
028 the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er, 
029 the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, 
030 the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim, 
031 the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, 
032 the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Sala, the son of Nahshon, 
033 the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, 
034 the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, 
035 the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah, 
036 the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, 
037 the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan, 
038 the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. 
