001 Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, 
002 just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us, 
003 it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, 
004 that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught. 
005 In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. 
006 And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. 
007 But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years. 
008 Now while he was serving as priest before God when his division was on duty, 
009 according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. 
010 And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense. 
011 And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. 
012 And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. 
013 But the angel said to him, `Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. 
014 And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, 
015 for he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. 
016 And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God, 
017 and he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared.` 
018 And Zechariah said to the angel, `How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years.` 
019 And the angel answered him, `I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news. 
020 And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time.` 
021 And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple. 
022 And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. 
023 And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home. 
024 After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, 
025 `Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me, to take away my reproach among people.` 
026 In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, 
027 to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. 
028 And he came to her and said, `Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you!` 
029 But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be. 
030 And the angel said to her, `Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. 
031 And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. 
032 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, 
033 and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.` 
034 And Mary said to the angel, `How will this be, since I am a virgin?` 
035 And the angel answered her, `The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy- the Son of God. 
036 And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren. 
037 For nothing will be impossible with God.` 
038 And Mary said, `Behold, I am the servant of the Lord; let it be to me according to your word.` And the angel departed from her. 
039 In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a town in Judah, 
040 and she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth. 
041 And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, 
042 and she exclaimed with a loud cry, `Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb! 
043 And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? 
044 For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. 
045 And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord.` 
046 And Mary said, `My soul magnifies the Lord, 
047 and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, 
048 for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed; 
049 for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. 
050 And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. 
051 He has shown strength with his arm; he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts; 
052 he has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate; 
053 he has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent empty away. 
054 He has helped his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy, 
055 as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his offspring forever.` 
056 And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home. 
057 Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son. 
058 And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her. 
059 And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. And they would have called him Zechariah after his father, 
060 but his mother answered, `No; he shall be called John.` 
061 And they said to her, `None of your relatives is called by this name.` 
062 And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called. 
063 And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, `His name is John.` And they all wondered. 
064 And immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God. 
065 And fear came on all their neighbors. And all these things were talked about through all the hill country of Judea, 
066 and all who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, `What then will this child be?` For the hand of the Lord was with him. 
067 And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, 
068 `Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people 
069 and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, 
070 as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, 
071 that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us; 
072 to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, 
073 the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us 
074 that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear, 
075 in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. 
076 And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High; for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, 
077 to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins, 
078 because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high 
079 to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.` 
080 And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel. 
