001 In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. 
002 This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria. 
003 And all went to be registered, each to his own town. 
004 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, 
005 to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. 
006 And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth. 
007 And she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn. 
008 And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. 
009 And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with fear. 
010 And the angel said to them, `Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of a great joy that will be for all the people. 
011 For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. 
012 And this will be a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger.` 
013 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, 
014 `Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased!` 
015 When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, `Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.` 
016 And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger. 
017 And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. 
018 And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. 
019 But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. 
020 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them. 
021 And at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. 
022 And when the time came for their purification according to the Law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord 
023 (as it is written in the Law of the Lord, `Every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord`) 
024 and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the Law of the Lord, `a pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.` 
025 Now there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. 
026 And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. 
027 And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the Law, 
028 he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, 
029 `Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace, according to your word; 
030 for my eyes have seen your salvation 
031 that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, 
032 a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel.` 
033 And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him. 
034 And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, `Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed 
035 (and a sword will pierce through your own soul also), so that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed.` 
036 And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin, 
037 and then as a widow until she was eighty-four. She did not depart from the temple, worshiping with fasting and prayer night and day. 
038 And coming up at that very hour she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. 
039 And when they had performed everything according to the Law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own town of Nazareth. 
040 And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of God was upon him. 
041 Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover. 
042 And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to custom. 
043 And when the feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know it, 
044 but supposing him to be in the group they went a day's journey, but then they began to search for him among their relatives and acquaintances, 
045 and when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, searching for him. 
046 After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. 
047 And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. 
048 And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, `Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress.` 
049 And he said to them, `Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?` 
050 And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them. 
051 And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. 
052 And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. 
