001 And Jesus was walking after these things in Galilee, for he did not wish to walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill him,  
002 and the feast of the Jews was nigh -- that of tabernacles --  
003 his brethren, therefore, said unto him, `Remove hence, and go away to Judea, that thy disciples also may behold thy works that thou dost;  
004 for no one in secret doth anything, and himself seeketh to be in public; if thou dost these things -- manifest thyself to the world;'  
005 for not even were his brethren believing in him.  
006 Jesus, therefore, saith to them, `My time is not yet present, but your time is always ready;  
007 the world is not able to hate you, but me it doth hate, because I testify concerning it that its works are evil.  
008 Ye -- go ye up to this feast; I do not yet go up to this feast, because my time hath not yet been fulfilled;'  
009 and saying these things to them, he remained in Galilee.  
010 And when his brethren went up, then also he himself went up to the feast, not manifestly, but as in secret;  
011 the Jews, therefore, were seeking him, in the feast, and said, `Where is that one?'  
012 and there was much murmuring about him among the multitudes, some indeed said -- `He is good;' and others said, `No, but he leadeth astray the multitude;'  
013 no one, however, was speaking freely about him, through fear of the Jews.  
014 And it being now the middle of the feast, Jesus went up to the temple, and he was teaching,  
015 and the Jews were wondering, saying, `How hath this one known letters -- not having learned?'  
016 Jesus answered them and said, `My teaching is not mine, but His who sent me;  
017 if any one may will to do His will, he shall know concerning the teaching, whether it is of God, or -- I do speak from myself.  
018 `He who is speaking from himself his own glory doth seek, but he who is seeking the glory of him who sent him, this one is true, and unrighteousness is not in him;  
019 hath not Moses given you the law? and none of you doth the law; why me do ye seek to kill?'  
020 The multitude answered and said, `Thou hast a demon, who doth seek to kill thee?'  
021 Jesus answered and said to them, `One work I did, and ye all wonder,  
022 because of this, Moses hath given you the circumcision -- not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers -- and on a sabbath ye circumcise a man;  
023 if a man doth receive circumcision on a sabbath that the law of Moses may not be broken, are ye wroth with me that I made a man all whole on a sabbath?  
024 judge not according to appearance, but the righteous judgment judge.'  
025 Certain, therefore, of the Jerusalemites said, `Is not this he whom they are seeking to kill?  
026 and, lo, he doth speak freely, and they say nothing to him; did the rulers at all know truly that this is truly the Christ?  
027 but this one -- we have known whence he is; and the Christ, when he doth come, no one doth know whence he is.'  
028 Jesus cried, therefore, in the temple, teaching and saying, `Ye have both known me, and ye have known whence I am; and I have not come of myself, but He who sent me is true, whom ye have not known;  
029 and I have known Him, because I am from Him, and He did send me.'  
030 They were seeking, therefore, to seize him, and no one laid the hand on him, because his hour had not yet come,  
031 and many out of the multitude did believe in him, and said -- `The Christ -- when he may come -- will he do more signs than these that this one did?'  
032 The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers that they may take him;  
033 Jesus, therefore, said to them, `Yet a little time I am with you, and I go away unto Him who sent me;  
034 ye will seek me, and ye shall not find; and where I am, ye are not able to come.'  
035 The Jews, therefore, said among themselves, `Whither is this one about to go that we shall not find him? -- to the dispersion of the Greeks is he about to go? and to teach the Greeks;  
036 what is this word that he said, Ye will seek me, and ye shall not find? and, Where I am, ye are not able to come?'  
037 And in the last, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, `If any one doth thirst, let him come unto me and drink;  
038 he who is believing in me, according as the Writing said, Rivers out of his belly shall flow of living water;'  
039 and this he said of the Spirit, which those believing in him were about to receive; for not yet was the Holy Spirit, because Jesus was not yet glorified.  
040 Many, therefore out of the multitude, having heard the word, said, `This is truly the Prophet;'  
041 others said, `This is the Christ;' and others said, `Why, out of Galilee doth the Christ come?  
042 Did not the Writing say, that out of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem -- the village where David was -- the Christ doth come?'  
043 A division, therefore, arose among the multitude because of him.  
044 And certain of them were willing to seize him, but no one laid hands on him;  
045 the officers came, therefore, unto the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, `Wherefore did ye not bring him?'  
046 The officers answered, `Never so spake man -- as this man.'  
047 The Pharisees, therefore, answered them, `Have ye also been led astray?  
048 did any one out of the rulers believe in him? or out of the Pharisees?  
049 but this multitude, that is not knowing the law, is accursed.'  
050 Nicodemus saith unto them -- he who came by night unto him -- being one of them,  
051 `Doth our law judge the man, if it may not hear from him first, and know what he doth?'  
052 They answered and said to him, `Art thou also out of Galilee? search and see, that a prophet out of Galilee hath not risen;'  
053 and each one went on to his house, but Jesus went on to the mount of the Olives.  
