001 A Psalm of Asaph. The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. 
002 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. 
003 Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him. 
004 He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people. 
005 Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. 
006 And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge himself. Selah. 
007 Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: I am God, even thy God. 
008 I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, to have been continually before me. 
009 I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy folds. 
010 For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills. 
011 I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine. 
012 If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof. 
013 Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats? 
014 Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High: 
015 And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. 
016 But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth? 
017 Seeing thou hatest instruction, and castest my words behind thee. 
018 When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers. 
019 Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit. 
020 Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother's son. 
021 These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee, and set them in order before thine eyes. 
022 Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver. 
023 Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God. 
