001 A Psalm for Solomon. Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son. 
002 He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment. 
003 The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness. 
004 He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor. 
005 They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations. 
006 He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that water the earth. 
007 In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth. 
008 He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth. 
009 They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust. 
010 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 
011 Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him. 
012 For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper. 
013 He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy. 
014 He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight. 
015 And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised. 
016 There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. 
017 His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed. 
018 Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things. 
019 And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen. 
020 The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended. 
