001 Maschil of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations. 
002 For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens. 
003 I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant, 
004 Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah. 
005 And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O LORD: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints. 
006 For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the LORD? 
007 God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him. 
008 O LORD God of hosts, who is a strong LORD like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee? 
009 Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them. 
010 Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm. 
011 The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them. 
012 The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name. 
013 Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand. 
014 Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face. 
015 Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O LORD, in the light of thy countenance. 
016 In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted. 
017 For thou art the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted. 
018 For the LORD is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our king. 
019 Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people. 
020 I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him: 
021 With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him. 
022 The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him. 
023 And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him. 
024 But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted. 
025 I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. 
026 He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. 
027 Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. 
028 My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him. 
029 His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. 
030 If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments; 
031 If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments; 
032 Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. 
033 Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. 
034 My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. 
035 Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David. 
036 His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me. 
037 It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven. Selah. 
038 But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed. 
039 Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the ground. 
040 Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin. 
041 All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours. 
042 Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice. 
043 Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle. 
044 Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground. 
045 The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah. 
046 How long, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire? 
047 Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain? 
048 What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah. 
049 Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy truth? 
050 Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people; 
051 Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed. 
052 Blessed be the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen. 
