001 Maschil of Asaph. O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture? 
002 Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt. 
003 Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary. 
004 Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs. 
005 A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees. 
006 But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers. 
007 They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground. 
008 They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land. 
009 We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knoweth how long. 
010 O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever? 
011 Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out of thy bosom. 
012 For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth. 
013 Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters. 
014 Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness. 
015 Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers. 
016 The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. 
017 Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter. 
018 Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O LORD, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name. 
019 O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever. 
020 Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty. 
021 O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name. 
022 Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily. 
023 Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually. 
