001 Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty. 
002 Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain: 
003 Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind: 
004 Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire: 
005 Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever. 
006 Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains. 
007 At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away. 
008 They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them. 
009 Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth. 
010 He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills. 
011 They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst. 
012 By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches. 
013 He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works. 
014 He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth; 
015 And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth man's heart. 
016 The trees of the LORD are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted; 
017 Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir trees are her house. 
018 The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks for the conies. 
019 He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down. 
020 Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth. 
021 The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God. 
022 The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens. 
023 Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening. 
024 O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches. 
025 So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts. 
026 There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein. 
027 These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat in due season. 
028 That thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good. 
029 Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust. 
030 Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth. 
031 The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall rejoice in his works. 
032 He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke. 
033 I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. 
034 My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the LORD. 
035 Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the LORD, O my soul. Praise ye the LORD. 
