001 And morning having come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus, so as to put him to death;  
002 and having bound him, they did lead away, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate, the governor.  
003 Then Judas -- he who delivered him up -- having seen that he was condemned, having repented, brought back the thirty silverlings to the chief priests, and to the elders, saying,  
004 `I did sin, having delivered up innocent blood;' and they said, `What -- to us? thou shalt see!'  
005 and having cast down the silverlings in the sanctuary, he departed, and having gone away, he did strangle himself.  
006 And the chief priests having taken the silverlings, said, `It is not lawful to put them to the treasury, seeing it is the price of blood;'  
007 and having taken counsel, they bought with them the field of the potter, for the burial of strangers;  
008 therefore was that field called, `Field of blood,' unto this day.  
009 Then was fulfilled that spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying, `And I took the thirty silverlings, the price of him who hath been priced, whom they of the sons of Israel did price,  
010 and gave them for the field of the potter, as the Lord did appoint to me.'  
011 And Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor did question him, saying, `Art thou the king of the Jews!' And Jesus said to him, `Thou sayest.'  
012 And in his being accused by the chief priests and the elders, he did not answer any thing,  
013 then saith Pilate to him, `Dost thou not hear how many things they witness against thee?'  
014 And he did not answer him, not even to one word, so that the governor did wonder greatly.  
015 And at the feast the governor had been accustomed to release one to the multitude, a prisoner, whom they willed,  
016 and they had then a noted prisoner, called Barabbas,  
017 they therefore having been gathered together, Pilate said to them, `Whom will ye I shall release to you? Barabbas or Jesus who is called Christ?'  
018 for he had known that because of envy they had delivered him up.  
019 And as he is sitting on the tribunal, his wife sent unto him, saying, `Nothing -- to thee and to that righteous one, for many things did I suffer to-day in a dream because of him.'  
020 And the chief priests and the elders did persuade the multitudes that they might ask for themselves Barabbas, and might destroy Jesus;  
021 and the governor answering said to them, `Which of the two will ye `that' I shall release to you?' And they said, `Barabbas.' 
022 Pilate saith to them, `What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?' They all say to him, `Let be crucified!'  
023 And the governor said, `Why, what evil did he?' and they were crying out the more, saying, `Let be crucified.'  
024 And Pilate having seen that it profiteth nothing, but rather a tumult is made, having taken water, he did wash the hands before the multitude, saying, `I am innocent from the blood of this righteous one; ye -- ye shall see;'  
025 and all the people answering said, `His blood `is' upon us, and upon our children!' 
026 Then did he release to them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, he delivered `him' up that he may be crucified; 
027 then the soldiers of the governor having taken Jesus to the Praetorium, did gather to him all the band;  
028 and having unclothed him, they put around him a crimson cloak,  
029 and having plaited him a crown out of thorns they put `it' on his head, and a reed in his right hand, and having kneeled before him, they were mocking him, saying, `Hail, the king of the Jews.' 
030 And having spit on him, they took the reed, and were smiting on his head;  
031 and when they had mocked him, they took off from him the cloak, and put on him his own garments, and led him away to crucify `him'. 
032 And coming forth, they found a man, a Cyrenian, by name Simon: him they impressed that he might bear his cross;  
033 and having come to a place called Golgotha, that is called Place of a Skull,  
034 they gave him to drink vinegar mixed with gall, and having tasted, he would not drink.  
035 And having crucified him, they divided his garments, casting a lot, that it might be fulfilled that was spoken by the prophet, `They divided my garments to themselves, and over my vesture they cast a lot;'  
036 and sitting down, they were watching him there,  
037 and they put up over his head, his accusation written, `This is Jesus, the king of the Jews.'  
038 Then crucified with him are two robbers, one on the right hand, and one on the left,  
039 and those passing by were speaking evil of him, wagging their heads,  
040 and saying, `Thou that art throwing down the sanctuary, and in three days building `it', save thyself; if Son thou art of God, come down from the cross.' 
041 And in like manner also the chief priests mocking, with the scribes and elders, said,  
042 `Others he saved; himself he is not able to save! If he be King of Israel, let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe him;  
043 he hath trusted on God, let Him now deliver him, if He wish him, because he said -- Son of God I am;'  
044 with the same also the robbers, who were crucified with him, were reproaching him.  
045 And from the sixth hour darkness came over all the land unto the ninth hour,  
046 and about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a great voice, saying, `Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?' that is, `My God, my God, why didst Thou forsake me?'  
047 And certain of those standing there having heard, said -- `Elijah he doth call;'  
048 and immediately, one of them having run, and having taken a spunge, having filled `it' with vinegar, and having put `it' on a reed, was giving him to drink, 
049 but the rest said, `Let alone, let us see if Elijah doth come -- about to save him.'  
050 And Jesus having again cried with a great voice, yielded the spirit;  
051 and lo, the vail of the sanctuary was rent in two from top unto bottom, and the earth did quake, and the rocks were rent,  
052 and the tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who have fallen asleep, arose,  
053 and having come forth out of the tombs after his rising, they went into the holy city, and appeared to many.  
054 And the centurion, and those with him watching Jesus, having seen the earthquake, and the things that were done, were exceedingly afraid, saying, `Truly this was God's Son.'  
055 And there were there many women beholding from afar, who did follow Jesus from Galilee, ministering to him,  
056 among whom was Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and of Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.  
057 And evening having come, there came a rich man, from Arimathea, named Joseph, who also himself was discipled to Jesus,  
058 he having gone near to Pilate, asked for himself the body of Jesus; then Pilate commanded the body to be given back.  
059 And having taken the body, Joseph wrapped it in clean linen,  
060 and laid it in his new tomb, that he hewed in the rock, and having rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, he went away;  
061 and there were there Mary the Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over-against the sepulchre.  
062 And on the morrow that is after the preparation, were gathered together the chief priests, and the Pharisees, unto Pilate,  
063 saying, `Sir, we have remembered that that deceiver said while yet living, After three days I do rise;  
064 command, then, the sepulchre to be made secure till the third day, lest his disciples, having come by night, may steal him away, and may say to the people, He rose from the dead, and the last deceit shall be worse than the first.'  
065 And Pilate said to them, `Ye have a watch, go away, make secure -- as ye have known;'  
066 and they, having gone, did make the sepulchre secure, having sealed the stone, together with the watch.  
