001 And having gone to the boat, he passed over, and came to his own city,  
002 and lo, they were bringing to him a paralytic, laid upon a couch, and Jesus having seen their faith, said to the paralytic, `Be of good courage, child, thy sins have been forgiven thee.'  
003 And lo, certain of the scribes said within themselves, `This one doth speak evil.'  
004 And Jesus, having known their thoughts, said, `Why think ye evil in your hearts?  
005 for which is easier? to say, The sins have been forgiven to thee; or to say, Rise, and walk?  
006 `But, that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power upon the earth to forgive sins -- (then saith he to the paralytic) -- having risen, take up thy couch, and go to thy house.'  
007 And he, having risen, went to his house,  
008 and the multitudes having seen, wondered, and glorified God, who did give such power to men.  
009 And Jesus passing by thence, saw a man sitting at the tax-office, named Matthew, and saith to him, `Be following me,' and he, having risen, did follow him.  
010 And it came to pass, he reclining (at meat) in the house, that lo, many tax-gatherers and sinners having come, were lying (at meat) with Jesus and his disciples,  
011 and the Pharisees having seen, said to his disciples, `Wherefore with the tax-gatherers and sinners doth your teacher eat?'  
012 And Jesus having heard, said to them, `They who are whole have no need of a physician, but they who are ill;  
013 but having gone, learn ye what is, Kindness I will, and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call righteous men, but sinners, to reformation.'  
014 Then come to him do the disciples of John, saying, `Wherefore do we and the Pharisees fast much, and thy disciples fast not?'  
015 And Jesus said to them, `Can the sons of the bride-chamber mourn, so long as the bridegroom is with them? but days shall come when the bridegroom may be taken from them, and then they shall fast.  
016 `And no one doth put a patch of undressed cloth on an old garment, for its filling up doth take from the garment, and a worse rent is made.  
017 `Nor do they put new wine into old skins, and if not -- the skins burst, and the wine doth run out, and the skins are destroyed, but they put new wine into new skins, and both are preserved together.'  
018 While he is speaking these things to them, lo, a ruler having come, was bowing to him, saying that `My daughter just now died, but, having come, lay thy hand upon her, and she shall live.'  
019 And Jesus having risen, did follow him, also his disciples,  
020 and lo, a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, having come to him behind, did touch the fringe of his garments,  
021 for she said within herself, `If only I may touch his garment, I shall be saved.'  
022 And Jesus having turned about, and having seen her, said, `Be of good courage, daughter, thy faith hath saved thee,' and the woman was saved from that hour.  
023 And Jesus having come to the house of the ruler, and having seen the minstrels and the multitude making tumult,  
024 he saith to them, `Withdraw, for the damsel did not die, but doth sleep,' and they were deriding him;  
025 but, when the multitude was put forth, having gone in, he took hold of her hand, and the damsel arose,  
026 and the fame of this went forth to all the land.  
027 And Jesus passing on thence, two blind men followed him, calling and saying, `Deal kindly with us, Son of David.'  
028 And he having come to the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus saith to them, `Believe ye that I am able to do this?' They say to him, `Yes, sir.'  
029 Then touched he their eyes, saying, `According to your faith let it be to you,'  
030 and their eyes were opened, and Jesus strictly charged them, saying, `See, let no one know;'  
031 but they, having gone forth, did spread his fame in all that land.  
032 And as they are coming forth, lo, they brought to him a man dumb, a demoniac,  
033 and the demon having been cast out, the dumb spake, and the multitude did wonder, saying that `It was never so seen in Israel:'  
034 but the Pharisees said, `By the ruler of the demons he doth cast out the demons.'  
035 And Jesus was going up and down all the cities and the villages, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the good news of the reign, and healing every sickness and every malady among the people.  
036 And having seen the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, that they were faint and cast aside, as sheep not having a shepherd,  
037 then saith he to his disciples, `The harvest indeed `is' abundant, but the workmen few; 
038 beseech ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he may put forth workmen to His harvest.'  
