001 And Jesus answering, again spake to them in similes, saying,  
002 `The reign of the heavens was likened to a man, a king, who made marriage-feasts for his son,  
003 and he sent forth his servants to call those having been called to the marriage-feasts, and they were not willing to come.  
004 `Again he sent forth other servants, saying, Say to those who have been called: Lo, my dinner I prepared, my oxen and the fatlings have been killed, and all things `are' ready, come ye to the marriage-feasts; 
005 and they, having disregarded `it', went away, the one to his own field, and the other to his merchandise; 
006 and the rest, having laid hold on his servants, did insult and slay `them'. 
007 `And the king having heard, was wroth, and having sent forth his soldiers, he destroyed those murderers, and their city he set on fire;  
008 then saith he to his servants, The marriage-feast indeed is ready, and those called were not worthy,  
009 be going, then, on to the cross-ways, and as many as ye may find, call ye to the marriage-feasts.  
010 `And those servants, having gone forth to the ways, did gather all, as many as they found, both bad and good, and the marriage-feast apartment was filled with those reclining.  
011 `And the king having come in to view those reclining, saw there a man not clothed with clothing of the marriage-feast,  
012 and he saith to him, Comrade, how didst thou come in hither, not having clothing of the marriage-feast? and he was speechless.  
013 `Then said the king to the ministrants, Having bound his feet and hands, take him up and cast forth to the outer darkness, there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of the teeth;  
014 for many are called, and few chosen.'  
015 Then the Pharisees having gone, took counsel how they might ensnare him in words,  
016 and they send to him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, `Teacher, we have known that thou art true, and the way of God in truth thou dost teach, and thou art not caring for any one, for thou dost not look to the face of men;  
017 tell us, therefore, what dost thou think? is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not?'  
018 And Jesus having known their wickedness, said, `Why me do ye tempt, hypocrites?  
019 show me the tribute-coin?' and they brought to him a denary;  
020 and he saith to them, `Whose `is' this image and the inscription?' 
021 they say to him, `Caesar's;' then saith he to them, `Render therefore the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God;'  
022 and having heard they wondered, and having left him they went away.  
023 In that day there came near to him Sadducees, who are saying there is not a rising again, and they questioned him, saying,  
024 `Teacher, Moses said, If any one may die not having children, his brother shall marry his wife, and shall raise up seed to his brother.  
025 `And there were with us seven brothers, and the first having married did die, and not having seed, he left his wife to his brother;  
026 in like manner also the second, and the third, unto the seventh,  
027 and last of all died also the woman;  
028 therefore in the rising again, of which of the seven shall she be wife -- for all had her?'  
029 And Jesus answering said to them, `Ye go astray, not knowing the Writings, nor the power of God;  
030 for in the rising again they do not marry, nor are they given in marriage, but are as messengers of God in heaven.  
031 `And concerning the rising again of the dead, did ye not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,  
032 I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not a God of dead men, but of living.'  
033 And having heard, the multitudes were astonished at his teaching;  
034 and the Pharisees, having heard that he did silence the Sadducees, were gathered together unto him;  
035 and one of them, a lawyer, did question, tempting him, and saying,  
036 `Teacher, which `is' the great command in the Law?' 
037 And Jesus said to him, `Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thine understanding --  
038 this is a first and great command;  
039 and the second `is' like to it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself; 
040 on these -- the two commands -- all the law and the prophets do hang.'  
041 And the Pharisees having been gathered together, Jesus did question them,  
042 saying, `What do ye think concerning the Christ? of whom is he son?' They say to him, `Of David.'  
043 He saith to them, `How then doth David in the Spirit call him lord, saying,  
044 The Lord said to my lord, Sit at my right hand, till I may make thine enemies thy footstool?  
045 If then David doth call him lord, how is he his son?'  
046 And no one was able to answer him a word, nor durst any from that day question him any more.  
