001 And the lot for the tribe of the sons of Judah, for their families, is unto the border of Edom; the wilderness of Zin southward, at the extremity of the south;  
002 and to them the south border is at the extremity of the salt sea, from the bay which is looking southward;  
003 and it hath gone out unto the south to Maaleh-Akrabbim, and passed over to Zin, and gone up on the south to Kadesh-Barnea, and passed over `to' Hezron, and gone up to Adar, and turned round to Karkaa, 
004 and passed over `to' Azmon, and gone out `at' the brook of Egypt, and the outgoings of the border have been at the sea; this is to you the south border. 
005 And the east border `is' the salt sea, unto the extremity of the Jordan, and the border at the north quarter `is' from the bay of the sea, at the extremity of the Jordan; 
006 and the border hath gone up `to' Beth-Hoglah, and passed over on the north of Beth-Arabah, and the border hath gone up `to' the stone of Bohan son of Reuben: 
007 and the border hath gone up towards Debir from the valley of Achor, and northward looking unto Gilgal, which `is' over-against the ascent of Adummim, which `is' on the south of the brook, and the border hath passed over unto the waters of En-Shemesh, and its outgoings have been unto En-Rogel; 
008 and the border hath gone up the valley of the son of Hinnom, unto the side of the Jebusite on the south (it `is' Jerusalem), and the border hath gone up unto the top of the hill-country which `is' on the front of the valley of Hinnom westward, which `is' in the extremity of the valley of the Rephaim northward; 
009 and the border hath been marked out, from the top of the hill-country unto the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah, and hath gone out unto the cities of mount Ephron, and the border hath been marked out `to' Baalah, (it `is' Kirjath-Jearim); 
010 and the border hath gone round from Baalah westward, unto mount Seir, and passed over unto the side of mount Jearim (it `is' Chesalon), on the north, and gone down `to' Beth-Shemesh, and passed over to Timnah; 
011 and the border hath gone out unto the side of Ekron northward, and the border hath been marked out `to' Shicron, and hath passed over to mount Baalah, and gone out `to' Jabneel; and the outgoings of the border have been at the sea. 
012 And the west border `is' to the great sea, and `its' border; this `is' the border of the sons of Judah round about for their families. 
013 And to Caleb son of Jephunneh hath he given a portion in the midst of the sons of Judah, according to the command of Jehovah to Joshua, `even' the city of Arba, father of Anak -- it `is' Hebron. 
014 And Caleb is dispossessing thence the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, children of Anak,  
015 and he goeth up thence unto the inhabitants of Debir; and the name of Debir formerly is Kirjath-Sepher.  
016 And Caleb saith, `He who smiteth Kirjath-Sephar, and hath captured it -- I have given to him Achsah my daughter for a wife.'  
017 And Othniel son of Kenaz, brother of Caleb, doth capture it, and he giveth to him Achsah his daughter for a wife.  
018 And it cometh to pass, in her coming in, that she persuadeth him to ask from her father a field, and she lighteth from off the ass, and Caleb saith to her, `What -- to thee?'  
019 And she saith, `Give to me a blessing; when the land of the south thou hast given me, then thou hast given to me springs of waters;' and he giveth to her the upper springs and the lower springs.  
020 This `is' the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah, for their families. 
021 And the cities at the extremity of the tribe of the sons of Judah are unto the border of Edom in the south, Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,  
022 and Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,  
023 and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,  
024 Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth,  
025 and Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, Hezron, (it `is' Hazor,) 
026 Amam, and Shema, and Moladah,  
027 and Hazar-Gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-Palet,  
028 and Hazar-Shual, and Beer-Sheba, and Bizjothjah,  
029 Baalah, and Iim, and Azem,  
030 And Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,  
031 and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah,  
032 and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon; all the cities `are' twenty and nine, and their villages. 
033 In the low country: Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,  
034 and Zanoah, and En-Gannim, Tappuah, and Enam,  
035 Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah,  
036 and Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities and their villages.  
037 Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-Gad,  
038 and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,  
039 Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon,  
040 and Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish,  
041 and Gederoth, Beth-Dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities and their villages.  
042 Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan,  
043 and Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,  
044 and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities and their villages.  
045 Ekron and its towns and its villages,  
046 from Ekron and westward, all that `are' by the side of Ashdod, and their villages. 
047 Ashdod, its towns and its villages, Gaza, its towns and its villages, unto the brook of Egypt, and the great sea, and `its' border. 
048 And in the hill-country: Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh,  
049 and Dannah, and Kirjath-Sannah (it `is' Debir) 
050 and Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim,  
051 and Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities and their villages.  
052 Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean,  
053 and Janum, and Beth-Tappuah, and Aphekah,  
054 and Humtah, and Kirjath-Arba (it `is' Hebron), and Zior; nine cities and their villages. 
055 Maon, Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah,  
056 and Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,  
057 Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities and their villages.  
058 Halhul, Beth-Zur, and Gedor,  
059 and Maarath, and Beth-Anoth, and Eltekon; six cities and their villages.  
060 Kirjath-Baal (it `is' Kirjath-Jearim), and Rabbah; two cities and their villages. 
061 In the wilderness: Beth-Arabah, Middin, and Secacah,  
062 and Nibshan, and the city of Salt, and En-Gedi; six cities and their villages.  
063 As to the Jebusites, inhabitants of Jerusalem, the sons of Judah have not been able to dispossess them, and the Jebusite dwelleth with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem unto this day.  
