001 `You shall not make idols for yourselves or erect an image or pillar, and you shall not set up a figured stone in your land to bow down to it, for I am the LORD your God. 
002 You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD. 
003 `If you walk in my statutes and observe my commandments and do them, 
004 then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. 
005 Your threshing shall last to the time of the grape harvest, and the grape harvest shall last to the time for sowing. And you shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land securely. 
006 I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. And I will remove harmful beasts from the land, and the sword shall not go through your land. 
007 You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword. 
008 Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand, and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. 
009 I will turn to you and make you fruitful and multiply you and will confirm my covenant with you. 
010 You shall eat old store long kept, and you shall clear out the old to make way for the new. 
011 I will make my dwelling among you, and my soul shall not abhor you. 
012 And I will walk among you and will be your God, and you shall be my people. 
013 I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, that you should not be their slaves. And I have broken the bars of your yoke and made you walk erect. 
014 `But if you will not listen to me and will not do all these commandments, 
015 if you spurn my statutes, and if your soul abhors my rules, so that you will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant, 
016 then I will do this to you: I will visit you with panic, with wasting disease and fever that consume the eyes and make the heart ache. And you shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. 
017 I will set my face against you, and you shall be struck down before your enemies. Those who hate you shall rule over you, and you shall flee when none pursues you. 
018 And if in spite of this you will not listen to me, then I will discipline you again sevenfold for your sins, 
019 and I will break the pride of your power, and I will make your heavens like iron and your earth like bronze. 
020 And your strength shall be spent in vain, for your land shall not yield its increase, and the trees of the land shall not yield their fruit. 
021 `Then if you walk contrary to me and will not listen to me, I will continue striking you, sevenfold for your sins. 
022 And I will let loose the wild beasts against you, which shall bereave you of your children and destroy your livestock and make you few in number, so that your roads shall be deserted. 
023 `And if by this discipline you are not turned to me but walk contrary to me, 
024 then I also will walk contrary to you, and I myself will strike you sevenfold for your sins. 
025 And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall execute vengeance for the covenant. And if you gather within your cities, I will send pestilence among you, and you shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy. 
026 When I break your supply of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in a single oven and shall dole out your bread again by weight, and you shall eat and not be satisfied. 
027 `But if in spite of this you will not listen to me, but walk contrary to me, 
028 then I will walk contrary to you in fury, and I myself will discipline you sevenfold for your sins. 
029 You shall eat the flesh of your sons, and you shall eat the flesh of your daughters. 
030 And I will destroy your high places and cut down your incense altars and cast your dead bodies upon the dead bodies of your idols, and my soul will abhor you. 
031 And I will lay your cities waste and will make your sanctuaries desolate, and I will not smell your pleasing aromas. 
032 And I myself will devastate the land, so that your enemies who settle in it shall be appalled at it. 
033 And I will scatter you among the nations, and I will unsheathe the sword after you, and your land shall be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste. 
034 `Then the land shall enjoy its Sabbaths as long as it lies desolate, while you are in your enemies' land; then the land shall rest, and enjoy its Sabbaths. 
035 As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, the rest that it did not have on your Sabbaths when you were dwelling in it. 
036 And as for those of you who are left, I will send faintness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies. The sound of a driven leaf shall put them to flight, and they shall flee as one flees from the sword, and they shall fall when none pursues. 
037 They shall stumble over one another, as if to escape a sword, though none pursues. And you shall have no power to stand before your enemies. 
038 And you shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up. 
039 And those of you who are left shall rot away in your enemies' lands because of their iniquity, and also because of the iniquities of their fathers they shall rot away like them. 
040 `But if they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers in their treachery that they committed against me, and also in walking contrary to me, 
041 so that I walked contrary to them and brought them into the land of their enemies- if then their uncircumcised heart is humbled and they make amends for their iniquity, 
042 then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and I will remember my covenant with Isaac and my covenant with Abraham, and I will remember the land. 
043 But the land shall be abandoned by them and enjoy its Sabbaths while it lies desolate without them, and they shall make amends for their iniquity, because they spurned my rules and their soul abhorred my statutes. 
044 Yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not spurn them, neither will I abhor them so as to destroy them utterly and break my covenant with them, for I am the LORD their God. 
045 But I will for their sake remember the covenant with their forefathers, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God: I am the LORD.` 
046 These are the statutes and rules and laws that the LORD made between him and the people of Israel through Moses on Mount Sinai. 
