001 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
002 `Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, I am the LORD your God. 
003 You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, where you lived, and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, to which I am bringing you. You shall not walk in their statutes. 
004 You shall follow my rules and keep my statutes and walk in them. I am the LORD your God. 
005 You shall therefore keep my statutes and my rules; if a person does them, he shall live by them: I am the LORD. 
006 `None of you shall approach any one of his close relatives to uncover nakedness. I am the LORD. 
007 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your mother; she is your mother, you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
008 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife; it is your father's nakedness. 
009 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, your father's daughter or your mother's daughter, whether brought up in the family or in another home. 
010 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, for their nakedness is your own nakedness. 
011 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, brought up in your father's family, since she is your sister. 
012 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister; she is your father's relative. 
013 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's relative. 
014 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, that is, you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt. 
015 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife, you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
016 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; it is your brother's nakedness. 
017 You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and of her daughter, and you shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness; they are relatives; it is depravity. 
018 And you shall not take a woman as a rival wife to her sister, uncovering her nakedness while her sister is still alive. 
019 `You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual uncleanness. 
020 And you shall not lie sexually with your neighbor's wife and so make yourself unclean with her. 
021 You shall not give any of your children to offer them to Molech, and so profane the name of your God: I am the LORD. 
022 You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an abomination. 
023 And you shall not lie with any animal and so make yourself unclean with it, neither shall any woman give herself to an animal to lie with it: it is perversion. 
024 `Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things, for by all these the nations I am driving out before you have become unclean, 
025 and the land became unclean, so that I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out its inhabitants. 
026 But you shall keep my statutes and my rules and do none of these abominations, either the native or the stranger who sojourns among you 
027 (for the people of the land, who were before you, did all of these abominations, so that the land became unclean), 
028 lest the land vomit you out when you make it unclean, as it vomited out the nation that was before you. 
029 For everyone who does any of these abominations, the persons who do them shall be cut off from among their people. 
030 So keep my charge never to practice any of these abominable customs that were practiced before you, and never to make yourselves unclean by them: I am the LORD your God.` 
