001 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, and unto Aaron, saying,  
002 `Each by his standard, with ensigns of the house of their fathers, do the sons of Israel encamp; over-against round about the tent of meeting they encamp.'  
003 And those encamping eastward towards the sun-rising, `are of' the standard of the camp of Judah, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Judah `is' Nahshon, son of Amminadab; 
004 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' four and seventy thousand and six hundred. 
005 And those encamping by him `are of' the tribe of Issachar; and the prince of the sons of Issachar `is' Nethaneel son of Zuar; 
006 and his host, and its numbered ones, `are' four and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
007 The tribe of Zebulun; and the prince of the sons of Zebulun `is' Eliab son of Helon; 
008 and his host, and its numbered ones, `are' seven and fifty thousand and four hundred; 
009 all those numbered of the camp of Judah `are' a hundred thousand, and eighty thousand, and six thousand, and four hundred, by their hosts; they journey first. 
010 The standard of the camp of Reuben `is' southward, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Reuben `is' Elizur son of Shedeur; 
011 and his host, and its numbered ones, `are' six and forty thousand and five hundred. 
012 And those encamping by him `are of' the tribe of Simeon; and the prince of the sons of Simeon `is' Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai; 
013 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' nine and fifty thousand and three hundred. 
014 And the tribe of Gad; and the prince of the sons of Gad `is' Eliasaph son of Reuel; 
015 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' five and forty thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
016 All those numbered of the camp of Reuben `are' a hundred thousand, and one and fifty thousand, and four hundred and fifty, by their hosts; and they journey second. 
017 And the tent of meeting -- the camp of the Levites -- hath journeyed in the midst of the camps; as they encamp so they journey, each at his station by their standards.  
018 The standard of the camp of Ephraim, by their hosts, `is' westward; and the prince of the sons of Ephraim `is' Elishama son of Ammihud; 
019 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' forty thousand and five hundred. 
020 And by him `is' the tribe of Manasseh; and the prince of the sons of Manasseh `is' Gamaliel son of Pedahzur; 
021 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' two and thirty thousand, and two hundred. 
022 And the tribe of Benjamin; and the prince of the sons of Benjamin `is' Abidan son of Gideoni; 
023 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' five and thirty thousand and four hundred. 
024 All those numbered of the camp of Ephraim `are' a hundred thousand, and eight thousand, and a hundred, by their hosts; and they journey third. 
025 The standard of the camp of Dan `is' northward, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Dan `is' Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai; 
026 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' two and sixty thousand and seven hundred. 
027 And those encamping by him `are of' the tribe of Asher; and the prince of the sons of Asher `is' Pagiel son of Ocran; 
028 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' one and forty thousand and five hundred. 
029 And the tribe of Naphtali; and the prince of the sons of Naphtali `is' Ahira son of Enan; 
030 and his host, and their numbered ones, `are' three and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
031 All those numbered of the camp of Dan `are' a hundred thousand, and seven and fifty thousand, and six hundred; at the rear they journey, by their standards. 
032 These `are' those numbered of the sons of Israel by the house of their fathers; all those numbered of the camps by their hosts `are' six hundred thousand, and three thousand, and five hundred and fifty. 
033 And the Levites have not numbered themselves in the midst of the sons of Israel, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.  
034 And the sons of Israel do according to all that Jehovah hath commanded Moses; so they have encamped by their standards, and so they have journeyed; each by his families, by the house of his fathers.  
