001 And it cometh to pass, after the plague, that Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, and unto Eleazar son of Aaron the priest, saying,  
002 `Take up the sum of all the company of the sons of Israel, from a son of twenty years and upward, by the house of their fathers, every one going out to the host in Israel.'  
003 And Moses speaketh -- Eleazar the priest also -- with them, in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, `near' Jericho, saying, 
004 `From a son of twenty years and upward,' as Jehovah hath commanded Moses and the sons of Israel who are coming out from the land of Egypt.  
005 Reuben, first-born of Israel -- sons of Reuben: `of' Hanoch `is' the family of the Hanochite; of Pallu the family of the Palluite; 
006 of Hezron the family of the Hezronite; of Carmi the family of the Carmite.  
007 These `are' families of the Reubenite, and their numbered ones are three and forty thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
008 And the son of Pallu `is' Eliab; 
009 and the sons of Eliab `are' Nemuel and Dathan and Abiram; this `is that' Dathan and Abiram, called ones of the company, who have striven against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, in their striving against Jehovah, 
010 and the earth openeth her mouth, and swalloweth them and Korah, in the death of the company, in the fire consuming the two hundred and fifty men, and they become a sign;  
011 and the sons of Korah died not.  
012 Sons of Simeon by their families: of Nemuel `is' the family of the Nemuelite; of Jamin the family of the Jaminite; of Jachin the family of the Jachinite; 
013 of Zerah the family of the Zarhite; of Shaul the family of the Shaulite.  
014 These `are' families of the Simeonite, two and twenty thousand and two hundred. 
015 Sons of Gad by their families: of Zephon `is' the family of the Zephonite; of Haggi the family of the Haggite; of Shuni the family of the Shunite; 
016 of Ozni the family of the Oznite; of Eri the family of the Erite:  
017 of Arod the family of the Arodite; of Areli the family of the Arelite.  
018 These `are' families of the sons of Gad, by their numbered ones, forty thousand and five hundred. 
019 Sons of Judah `are' Er and Onan; and Er dieth -- Onan also -- in the land of Canaan. 
020 And sons of Judah, by their families, are: of Shelah the family of the Shelanite; of Pharez the family of the Pharzite; of Zerah the family of the Zarhite;  
021 and sons of Pharez are: of Hezron the family of the Hezronite; of Hamul the family of the Hamulite.  
022 These `are' families of Judah, by their numbered ones, six and seventy thousand and five hundred. 
023 Sons of Issachar by their families; `of' Tola `is' the family of the Tolaite; of Pua the family of the Punite; 
024 of Jashub the family of the Jashubite; of Shimron the family of the Shimronite.  
025 These `are' families of Issachar, by their numbered ones, four and sixty thousand and three hundred. 
026 Sons of Zebulun by their families: of Sered `is' the family of the Sardite; of Elon the family of the Elonite; of Jahleel the family of the Jahleelite. 
027 These `are' families of the Zebulunite by their numbered ones, sixty thousand and five hundred. 
028 Sons of Joseph by their families `are' Manasseh and Ephraim. 
029 Sons of Manasseh: of Machir `is' the family of the Machirite; and Machir hath begotten Gilead; of Gilead `is' the family of the Gileadite. 
030 These `are' sons of Gilead: `of' Jeezer `is' the family of the Jeezerite; of Helek the family of the Helekite; 
031 and `of' Asriel the family of the Asrielite; and `of' Shechem the family of the Shechemite; 
032 and `of' Shemida the family of the Shemidaite; and `of' Hepher the family of the Hepherite. 
033 And Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons but daughters, and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad `are' Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
034 These `are' families of Manasseh, and their numbered ones `are' two and fifty thousand and seven hundred. 
035 These `are' sons of Ephraim by their families: of Shuthelah `is' the family of the Shuthelhite; of Becher the family of the Bachrite; of Tahan the family of the Tahanite. 
036 And these `are' sons of Shuthelah: of Eran the family of the Eranite. 
037 These `are' families of the sons of Ephraim, by their numbered ones, two and thirty thousand and five hundred. These `are' sons of Joseph by their families. 
038 Sons of Benjamin by their families: of Bela `is' the family of the Belaite; of Ashbel the family of the Ashbelite; of Ahiram the family of the Ahiramite; 
039 of Shupham the family of the Shuphamite; of Hupham the family of the Huphamite.  
040 And sons of Bela are Ard and Naaman: `of Ard is' the family of the Ardite: of Naaman the family of the Naamite. 
041 These `are' sons of Benjamin by their families, and their numbered ones `are' five and forty thousand and six hundred. 
042 These `are' sons of Dan by their families: of Shuham `is' the family of the Shuhamite; these `are' families of Dan by their families; 
043 all the families of the Shuhamite, by their numbered ones, `are' four and sixty thousand and four hundred. 
044 Sons of Asher by their families: of Jimna `is' the family of the Jimnite; of Jesui the family of the Jesuite; of Beriah the family of the Beriite. 
045 Of sons of Beriah: of Heber `is' the family of the Heberite; of Malchiel the family of the Malchielite. 
046 And the name of the daughter of Asher `is' Sarah. 
047 These `are' families of the sons of Asher, by their numbered ones, three and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
048 Sons of Naphtali by their families: of Jahzeel `is' the family of the Jahzeelite; of Guni the family of the Gunite; 
049 of Jezer the family of the Jezerite; of Shillem the family of the Shillemite.  
050 These `are' families of Naphtali by their families, and their numbered ones `are' five and forty thousand and four hundred. 
051 These `are' numbered ones of the sons of Israel, six hundred thousand, and a thousand, seven hundred and thirty. 
052 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,  
053 `To these is the land apportioned by inheritance, by the number of names;  
054 to the many thou dost increase their inheritance, and to the few thou dost diminish their inheritance; `to' each according to his numbered ones is given his inheritance. 
055 `Only by lot is the land apportioned, by the names of the tribes of their fathers they inherit;  
056 according to the lot is their inheritance apportioned between many and few.'  
057 And these `are' numbered ones of the Levite by their families: of Gershon `is' the family of the Gershonite; of Kohath the family of the Kohathite; of Merari the family of the Merarite. 
058 These `are' families of the Levite: the family of the Libnite, the family of the Hebronite, the family of the Mahlite, the family of the Mushite, the family of the Korathite. And Kohath hath begotten Amram, 
059 and the name of Amram's wife is Jochebed, daughter of Levi, whom `one' hath born to Levi in Egypt; and she beareth to Amram Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam their sister. 
060 And born to Aaron Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar;  
061 and Nadab dieth -- Abihu also -- in their bringing near strange fire before Jehovah.  
062 And their numbered ones are three and twenty thousand, every male from a son of a month and upwards, for they have not numbered themselves in the midst of the sons of Israel; for an inheritance hath not been given to them in the midst of the sons of Israel.  
063 These `are' those numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who have numbered the sons of Israel in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, `near' Jericho; 
064 and among these there hath not been a man of those numbered by Moses, and Aaron the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai,  
065 for Jehovah said of them, `They do certainly die in the wilderness;' and there hath not been left of them a man save Caleb son of Jephunneh, and Joshua son of Nun.  
