001 And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first of the second month, in the second year of their going out of the land of Egypt, saying:  
002 `Take ye up the sum of all the company of the sons of Israel by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names -- every male by their polls;  
003 from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host in Israel, ye do number them by their hosts, thou and Aaron;  
004 and with you there is a man for a tribe, each is a head to the house of his fathers.  
005 `And these `are' the names of the men who stand with you: `For Reuben -- Elizur son of Shedeur. 
006 `For Simeon -- Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.  
007 `For Judah -- Nahshon son of Amminadab.  
008 `For Issachar -- Nathaneel son of Zuar.  
009 `For Zebulun -- Eliab son of Helon.  
010 `For the sons of Joseph -- for Ephraim: Elishama son of Ammihud: for Manasseh -- Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.  
011 `For Benjamin -- Abidan son of Gideoni.  
012 `For Dan -- Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai.  
013 `For Asher -- Pagiel son of Ocran.  
014 `For Gad -- Eliasaph son of Deuel.  
015 `For Naphtali -- Ahira son of Enan.'  
016 These `are' those called of the company, princes of the tribes of their fathers; they `are' heads of the thousands of Israel. 
017 And Moses taketh -- Aaron also -- these men, who were defined by name,  
018 and all the company they assembled on the first of the second month, and they declare their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names from a son of twenty years and upward, by their polls,  
019 as Jehovah hath commanded Moses; and he numbereth them in the wilderness of Sinai.  
020 And the sons of Reuben, Israel's first-born -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, by their polls, every male from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
021 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Reuben, are six and forty thousand and five hundred.  
022 Of the sons of Simeon -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, its numbered ones in the number of names, by their polls, every male from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
023 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Simeon, `are' nine and fifty thousand and three hundred. 
024 Of the sons of Gad -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
025 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Gad, `are' five and forty thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
026 Of the sons of Judah -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
027 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Judah, `are' four and seventy thousand and six hundred. 
028 Of the sons of Issachar -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
029 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Issachar, `are' four and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
030 Of the sons of Zebulun -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
031 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Zebulun, `are' seven and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
032 Of the sons of Joseph -- of the sons of Ephraim -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
033 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Ephraim, `are' forty thousand and five hundred. 
034 Of the sons of Manasseh -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
035 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Manasseh, `are' two and thirty thousand and two hundred. 
036 Of the sons of Benjamin -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
037 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Benjamin, `are' five and thirty thousand and four hundred. 
038 Of the sons of Dan -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
039 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Dan, `are' two and sixty thousand and seven hundred. 
040 Of the sons of Asher -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host --  
041 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Asher, `are' one and forty thousand and five hundred. 
042 `Of' the sons of Naphtali -- their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host -- 
043 their numbered ones, for the tribe of Naphtali, `are' three and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
044 These `are' those numbered, whom Moses numbered -- Aaron also, and the princes of Israel, twelve men -- each for the house of his fathers, they have been. 
045 And they are, all those numbered of the sons of Israel, by the house of their fathers, from a son of twenty years and upward, every one going out to the host in Israel,  
046 yea, all those numbered are six hundred thousand, and three thousand, and five hundred and fifty.  
047 And the Levites, for the tribe of their fathers, have not numbered themselves in their midst,  
048 seeing Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,  
049 `Only, the tribe of Levi thou dost not number, and their sum thou dost not take up in the midst of the sons of Israel;  
050 and thou, appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all its vessels, and over all that it hath; they bear the tabernacle, and all its vessels, and they serve it; and round about the tabernacle they encamp.  
051 `And in the journeying of the tabernacle, the Levites take it down, and in the encamping of the tabernacle, the Levites raise it up; and the stranger who is coming near is put to death.'  
052 And the sons of Israel have encamped, each by his camp, and each by his standard, by their hosts;  
053 and the Levites encamp round about the tabernacle of the testimony; and there is no wrath on the company of the sons of Israel, and the Levites have kept the charge of the tabernacle of the testimony. 
054 And the sons of Israel do according to all that Jehovah hath commanded Moses; so they have done.  
