001 David and the chiefs of the service also set apart for the service the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who prophesied with lyres, with harps, and with cymbals. The list of those who did the work and of their duties was: 
002 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah, sons of Asaph, under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king. 
003 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the LORD. 
004 Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth. 
005 All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him, for God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 
006 They were all under the direction of their father in the music in the house of the LORD with cymbals, harps, and lyres for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the order of the king. 
007 The number of them along with their brothers, who were trained in singing to the LORD, all who were skillful, was 288. 
008 And they cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and pupil alike. 
009 The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, to him and his brothers and his sons, twelve; 
010 the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
011 the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
012 the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
013 the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
014 the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
015 the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
016 the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
017 the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
018 the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
019 the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
020 to the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
021 to the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
022 to the fifteenth, to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
023 to the sixteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
024 to the seventeenth, to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
025 to the eighteenth, to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
026 to the nineteenth, to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
027 to the twentieth, to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
028 to the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
029 to the twenty-second, to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
030 to the twenty-third, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
031 to the twenty-fourth, to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
