001 Then all Israel gathered together to David at Hebron and said, `Behold, we are your bone and flesh. 
002 In times past, even when Saul was king, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. And the LORD your God said to you, 'You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over my people Israel.'` 
003 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a covenant with them at Hebron before the LORD. And they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD by Samuel. 
004 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, that is Jebus, where the Jebusites were, the inhabitants of the land. 
005 The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, `You will not come in here.` Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David. 
006 David said, `Whoever strikes the Jebusites first shall be chief and commander.` And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, so he became chief. 
007 And David lived in the stronghold; therefore it was called the city of David. 
008 And he built the city all around from the Millo in complete circuit, and Joab repaired the rest of the city. 
009 And David became greater and greater, for the LORD of hosts was with him. 
010 Now these are the chiefs of David's mighty men, who gave him strong support in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel. 
011 This is an account of David's mighty men: Jashobeam, a Hachmonite, was chief of the three. He wielded his spear against 300 whom he killed at one time. 
012 And next to him among the three mighty men was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite. 
013 He was with David at Pas-dammim when the Philistines were gathered there for battle. There was a plot of ground full of barley, and the men fled from the Philistines. 
014 But he took his stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and killed the Philistines. And the LORD saved them by a great victory. 
015 Three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David at the cave of Adullam, when the army of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim. 
016 David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem. 
017 And David said longingly, `Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate!` 
018 Then the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that was by the gate and took it and brought it to David. But David would not drink it. He poured it out to the LORD 
019 and said, `Far be it from me before my God that I should do this. Shall I drink the lifeblood of these men? For at the risk of their lives they brought it.` Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men. 
020 Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, was chief of the thirty. And he wielded his spear against 300 men and killed them and won a name beside the three. 
021 He was the most renowned of the thirty and became their commander, but he did not attain to the three. 
022 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was a valiant man of Kabzeel, a doer of great deeds. He struck down two heroes of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen. 
023 And he struck down an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits tall. The Egyptian had in his hand a spear like a weaver's beam, but Benaiah went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand and killed him with his own spear. 
024 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and won a name beside the three mighty men. 
025 He was renowned among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his bodyguard. 
026 The mighty men were Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 
027 Shammoth of Harod, Helez the Pelonite, 
028 Ira the son of Ikkesh of Tekoa, Abiezer of Anathoth, 
029 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 
030 Maharai of Netophah, Heled the son of Baanah of Netophah, 
031 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the people of Benjamin, Benaiah of Pirathon, 
032 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 
033 Azmaveth of Baharum, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 
034 Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite, 
035 Ahiam the son of Sachar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur, 
036 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 
037 Hezro of Carmel, Naarai the son of Ezbai, 
038 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri, 
039 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai of Beeroth, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
040 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
041 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai, 
042 Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a leader of the Reubenites, and thirty with him, 
043 Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite, 
044 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite, 
045 Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite, 
046 Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, 
047 Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. 
