001 When David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel. 
002 David assembled all the leaders of Israel and the priests and the Levites. 
003 The Levites, thirty years old and upward, were numbered, and the total was 38,000 men. 
004 `Twenty-four thousand of these,` David said, `shall have charge of the work in the house of the LORD, 6,000 shall be officers and judges, 
005 4,000 gatekeepers, and 4,000 shall offer praises to the LORD with the instruments that I have made for praise.` 
006 And David organized them in divisions corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
007 The sons of Gershon were Ladan and Shimei. 
008 The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, and Zetham, and Joel, three. 
009 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers' houses of Ladan. 
010 And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei. 
011 Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, therefore they became counted as a single father's house. 
012 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four. 
013 The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Aaron was set apart to dedicate the most holy things, that he and his sons forever should make offerings before the LORD and minister to him and pronounce blessings in his name forever. 
014 But the sons of Moses the man of God were named among the tribe of Levi. 
015 The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. 
016 The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief. 
017 The sons of Eliezer: Rehabiah the chief. Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 
018 The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief. 
019 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
020 The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief and Isshiah the second. 
021 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 
022 Eleazar died having no sons, but only daughters; their kinsmen, the sons of Kish, married them. 
023 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three. 
024 These were the sons of Levi by their fathers' houses, the heads of fathers' houses as they were listed according to the number of the names of the individuals from twenty years old and upward who were to do the work for the service of the house of the LORD. 
025 For David said, `The LORD, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people, and he dwells in Jerusalem forever. 
026 And so the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle or any of the things for its service.` 
027 For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were numbered from twenty years old and upward. 
028 For their duty was to assist the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, having the care of the courts and the chambers, the cleansing of all that is holy, and any work for the service of the house of God. 
029 Their duty was also to assist with the showbread, the flour for the grain offering, the wafers of unleavened bread, the baked offering, the offering mixed with oil, and all measures of quantity or size. 
030 And they were to stand every morning, thanking and praising the LORD, and likewise at evening, 
031 and whenever burnt offerings were offered to the LORD on Sabbaths, new moons and feast days, according to the number required of them, regularly before the LORD. 
032 Thus they were to keep charge of the tent of meeting and the sanctuary, and to attend the sons of Aaron, their brothers, for the service of the house of the LORD. 
