001 As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord; the same things to write to you to me indeed is not tiresome, and for you `is' sure; 
002 look to the dogs, look to the evil-workers, look to the concision;  
003 for we are the circumcision, who by the Spirit are serving God, and glorying in Christ Jesus, and in flesh having no trust,  
004 though I also have `cause of' trust in flesh. If any other one doth think to have trust in flesh, I more; 
005 circumcision on the eighth day! of the race of Israel! of the tribe of Benjamin! a Hebrew of Hebrews! according to law a Pharisee!  
006 according to zeal persecuting the assembly! according to righteousness that is in law becoming blameless!  
007 But what things were to me gains, these I have counted, because of the Christ, loss;  
008 yes, indeed, and I count all things to be loss, because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom of the all things I suffered loss, and do count them to be refuse, that Christ I may gain, and be found in him,  
009 not having my righteousness, which `is' of law, but that which `is' through faith of Christ -- the righteousness that is of God by the faith, 
010 to know him, and the power of his rising again, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,  
011 if anyhow I may attain to the rising again of the dead.  
012 Not that I did already obtain, or have been already perfected; but I pursue, if also I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by the Christ Jesus;  
013 brethren, I do not reckon myself to have laid hold; and one thing -- the things behind indeed forgetting, and to the things before stretching forth --  
014 to the mark I pursue for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.  
015 As many, therefore, as `are' perfect -- let us think this, and if `in' anything ye think otherwise, this also shall God reveal to you, 
016 but to what we have come -- by the same rule walk, the same thing think;  
017 become followers together of me, brethren, and observe those thus walking, according as ye have us -- a pattern;  
018 for many walk of whom many times I told you -- and now also weeping tell -- the enemies of the cross of the Christ!  
019 whose end `is' destruction, whose god `is' the belly, and whose glory `is' in their shame, who the things on earth are minding. 
020 For our citizenship is in the heavens, whence also a Saviour we await -- the Lord Jesus Christ --  
021 who shall transform the body of our humiliation to its becoming conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working of his power, even to subject to himself the all things.  
