001 Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. 
002 And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. 
003 And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. 
004 And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments: 
005 And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? 
006 He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, 
007 Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. 
008 And they remembered his words, 
009 And returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. 
010 It was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles. 
011 And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not. 
012 Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. 
013 And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. 
014 And they talked together of all these things which had happened. 
015 And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. 
016 But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. 
017 And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? 
018 And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? 
019 And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: 
020 And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. 
021 But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done. 
022 Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre; 
023 And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. 
024 And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not. 
025 Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: 
026 Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? 
027 And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. 
028 And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further. 
029 But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. 
030 And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. 
031 And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. 
032 And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? 
033 And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, 
034 Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. 
035 And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. 
036 And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 
037 But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. 
038 And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? 
039 Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. 
040 And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet. 
041 And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? 
042 And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. 
043 And he took it, and did eat before them. 
044 And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. 
045 Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, 
046 And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day: 
047 And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 
048 And ye are witnesses of these things. 
049 And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. 
050 And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. 
051 And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven. 
052 And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: 
053 And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. 
