001 For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. 
002 Look: I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. 
003 I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. 
004 You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law; you have fallen away from grace. 
005 For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. 
006 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. 
007 You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? 
008 This persuasion is not from him who calls you. 
009 A little leaven leavens the whole lump. 
010 I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view than mine, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is. 
011 But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case the offense of the cross has been removed. 
012 I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves! 
013 For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. 
014 For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: `You shall love your neighbor as yourself.` 
015 But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. 
016 But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. 
017 For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. 
018 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 
019 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 
020 idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 
021 envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 
022 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 
023 gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. 
024 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 
025 If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. 
026 Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. 
