001 In Thee, O Jehovah, I have trusted, Let me not be ashamed to the age.  
002 In Thy righteousness Thou dost deliver me, And dost cause me to escape, Incline unto me Thine ear, and save me.  
003 Be to me for a rock -- a habitation, To go in continually, Thou hast given command to save me, For my rock and my bulwark `art' Thou. 
004 O my God, cause me to escape From the hand of the wicked, From the hand of the perverse and violent.  
005 For Thou `art' my hope, O Lord Jehovah, My trust from my youth. 
006 By Thee I have been supported from the womb, From my mother's bowels Thou dost cut me out, In Thee `is' my praise continually. 
007 As a wonder I have been to many, And Thou `art' my strong refuge. 
008 Filled is my mouth `with' Thy praise, All the day `with' Thy beauty. 
009 Cast me not off at the time of old age, According to the consumption of my power forsake me not.  
010 For mine enemies have spoken against me, And those watching my soul have taken counsel together,  
011 Saying, `God hath forsaken him, Pursue and catch him, for there is no deliverer.'  
012 O God, be not far from me, O my God, for my help make haste.  
013 They are ashamed, they are consumed, Who are opposing my soul, They are covered `with' reproach and blushing, Who are seeking my evil, 
014 And I continually do wait with hope, And have added unto all Thy praise.  
015 My mouth recounteth Thy righteousness, All the day Thy salvation, For I have not known the numbers.  
016 I come in the might of the Lord Jehovah, I mention Thy righteousness -- Thine only.  
017 God, Thou hast taught me from my youth, And hitherto I declare Thy wonders.  
018 And also unto old age and grey hairs, O God, forsake me not, Till I declare Thy strength to a generation, To every one that cometh Thy might.  
019 And Thy righteousness, O God, `is' unto the heights, Because Thou hast done great things, O God, who `is' like Thee? 
020 Because Thou hast showed me many and sad distresses, Thou turnest back -- Thou revivest me, And from the depths of the earth, Thou turnest back -- Thou bringest me up.  
021 Thou dost increase my greatness, And Thou surroundest -- Thou comfortest me,  
022 I also thank Thee with a vessel of psaltery, Thy truth, O my God, I sing to Thee with a harp, O Holy One of Israel,  
023 My lips cry aloud when I sing praise to Thee, And my soul that Thou hast redeemed,  
024 My tongue also all the day uttereth Thy righteousness, Because ashamed -- because confounded, Have been those seeking my evil!  
