001 To the Overseer. -- A Psalm of David. In Thee, O Jehovah, I have trusted, Let me not be ashamed to the age, In Thy righteousness deliver me.  
002 Incline unto me Thine ear hastily, deliver me, Be to me for a strong rock, For a house of bulwarks to save me.  
003 For my rock and my bulwark `art' Thou, For Thy name's sake lead me and tend me. 
004 Bring me out from the net that they hid for me, For Thou `art' my strength. 
005 Into Thy hand I commit my spirit, Thou hast redeemed me, Jehovah God of truth.  
006 I have hated the observers of lying vanities, And I toward Jehovah have been confident.  
007 I rejoice, and am glad in Thy kindness, In that Thou hast seen mine affliction, Thou hast known in adversities my soul.  
008 And Thou hast not shut me up, Into the hand of an enemy, Thou hast caused my feet to stand in a broad place.  
009 Favour me, O Jehovah, for distress `is' to me, Mine eye, my soul, and my body Have become old by provocation. 
010 For my life hath been consumed in sorrow And my years in sighing. Feeble because of mine iniquity hath been my strength, And my bones have become old.  
011 Among all mine adversaries I have been a reproach, And to my neighbours exceedingly, And a fear to mine acquaintances, Those seeing me without -- fled from me.  
012 I have been forgotten as dead out of mind, I have been as a perishing vessel.  
013 For I have heard an evil account of many, Fear `is' round about. In their being united against me, To take my life they have devised, 
014 And I on Thee -- I have trusted, O Jehovah, I have said, `Thou `art' my God.' 
015 In Thy hand `are' my times, Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, And from my pursuers. 
016 Cause Thy face to shine on Thy servant, Save me in Thy kindness.  
017 O Jehovah, let me not be ashamed, For I have called Thee, let the wicked be ashamed, Let them become silent to Sheol.  
018 Let lips of falsehood become dumb, That are speaking against the righteous, Ancient sayings, in pride and contempt.  
019 How abundant is Thy goodness, That Thou hast laid up for those fearing Thee,  
020 Thou hast wrought for those trusting in Thee, Before sons of men. Thou hidest them in the secret place of Thy presence, From artifices of man, Thou concealest them in a tabernacle, From the strife of tongues.  
021 Blessed `is' Jehovah, For He hath made marvellous His kindness To me in a city of bulwarks. 
022 And I -- I have said in my haste, `I have been cut off from before Thine eyes,' But Thou hast heard the voice of my supplications, In my crying unto Thee.  
023 Love Jehovah, all ye His saints, Jehovah is keeping the faithful, And recompensing abundantly a proud doer.  
024 Be strong, and He strengtheneth your heart, All ye who are waiting for Jehovah!  
