001 To the Overseer, on `The Hind of the Morning.' -- A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me? Far from my salvation, The words of my roaring?  
002 My God, I call by day, and Thou answerest not, And by night, and there is no silence to me.  
003 And Thou `art' holy, Sitting -- the Praise of Israel. 
004 In Thee did our fathers trust -- they trusted, And Thou dost deliver them.  
005 Unto Thee they cried, and were delivered, In Thee they trusted, and were not ashamed.  
006 And I `am' a worm, and no man, A reproach of man, and despised of the people. 
007 All beholding me do mock at me, They make free with the lip -- shake the head,  
008 `Roll unto Jehovah, He doth deliver him, He doth deliver him, for he delighted in him.'  
009 For thou `art' He bringing me forth from the womb, Causing me to trust, On the breasts of my mother. 
010 On Thee I have been cast from the womb, From the belly of my mother Thou `art' my God. 
011 Be not far from me, For adversity is near, for there is no helper.  
012 Many bulls have surrounded me, Mighty ones of Bashan have compassed me,  
013 They have opened against me their mouth, A lion tearing and roaring.  
014 As waters I have been poured out, And separated themselves have all my bones, My heart hath been like wax, It is melted in the midst of my bowels.  
015 Dried up as an earthen vessel is my power, And my tongue is cleaving to my jaws.  
016 And to the dust of death thou appointest me, For surrounded me have dogs, A company of evil doers have compassed me, Piercing my hands and my feet.  
017 I count all my bones -- they look expectingly, They look upon me,  
018 They apportion my garments to themselves, And for my clothing they cause a lot to fall.  
019 And Thou, O Jehovah, be not far off, O my strength, to help me haste.  
020 Deliver from the sword my soul, From the paw of a dog mine only one.  
021 Save me from the mouth of a lion: -- And -- from the horns of the high places Thou hast answered me!  
022 I declare Thy name to my brethren, In the midst of the assembly I praise Thee.  
023 Ye who fear Jehovah, praise ye Him, All the seed of Jacob, honour ye Him, And be afraid of Him, all ye seed of Israel.  
024 For He hath not despised, nor abominated, The affliction of the afflicted, Nor hath He hidden His face from him, And in his crying unto Him He heareth.  
025 Of Thee my praise `is' in the great assembly. My vows I complete before His fearers. 
026 The humble do eat and are satisfied, Praise Jehovah do those seeking Him, Your heart doth live for ever.  
027 Remember and return unto Jehovah, Do all ends of the earth, And before Thee bow themselves, Do all families of the nations,  
028 For to Jehovah `is' the kingdom, And He is ruling among nations. 
029 And the fat ones of earth have eaten, And they bow themselves, Before Him bow do all going down to dust, And he `who' hath not revived his soul. 
030 A seed doth serve Him, It is declared of the Lord to the generation.  
031 They come and declare His righteousness, To a people that is borne, that He hath made!  
