001 To the Overseer. -- By a servant of Jehovah, by David, who hath spoken to Jehovah the words of this song in the day Jehovah delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul, and he saith: -- I love Thee, O Jehovah, my strength.  
002 Jehovah `is' my rock, and my bulwark, And my deliverer, My God `is' my rock, I trust in Him: My shield, and a horn of my salvation, My high tower. 
003 The `Praised One' I call Jehovah, And from my enemies I am saved.  
004 Compassed me have cords of death, And streams of the worthless make me afraid.  
005 Cords of Sheol have surrounded me, Before me have been snares of death.  
006 In mine adversity I call Jehovah, And unto my God I cry. He heareth from His temple my voice, And My cry before Him cometh into His ears.  
007 And shake and tremble doth the earth, And foundations of hills are troubled, And they shake -- because He hath wrath.  
008 Gone up hath smoke by His nostrils, And fire from His mouth consumeth, Coals have been kindled by it.  
009 And He inclineth the heavens, and cometh down, And thick darkness `is' under His feet. 
010 And He rideth on a cherub, and doth fly, And He flieth on wings of wind.  
011 He maketh darkness His secret place, Round about Him His tabernacle, Darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.  
012 From the brightness over-against Him His thick clouds have passed on, Hail and coals of fire.  
013 And thunder in the heavens doth Jehovah, And the Most High giveth forth His voice, Hail and coals of fire.  
014 And He sendeth His arrows and scattereth them, And much lightning, and crusheth them.  
015 And seen are the streams of waters, And revealed are foundations of the earth. From Thy rebuke, O Jehovah, From the breath of the spirit of Thine anger.  
016 He sendeth from above -- He taketh me, He draweth me out of many waters.  
017 He delivereth me from my strong enemy, And from those hating me, For they have been stronger than I.  
018 They go before me in a day of my calamity And Jehovah is for a support to me.  
019 And He bringeth me forth to a large place, He draweth me out, because He delighted in me.  
020 Jehovah doth recompense me According to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands, He doth return to me.  
021 For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, And have not done wickedly against my God.  
022 For all His judgments `are' before me, And His statutes I turn not from me. 
023 And I am perfect with him, And I keep myself from mine iniquity.  
024 And Jehovah doth return to me, According to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands, Over-against his eyes.  
025 With the kind Thou showest Thyself kind, With a perfect man showest Thyself perfect.  
026 With the pure Thou showest Thyself pure, And with the perverse showest Thyself a wrestler,  
027 For Thou a poor people savest, And the eyes of the high causest to fall.  
028 For Thou -- Thou lightest my lamp, Jehovah my God enlighteneth my darkness.  
029 For by Thee I run -- a troop! And by my God I leap a wall.  
030 God! perfect `is' His way, The saying of Jehovah is tried, A shield `is' He to all those trusting in Him. 
031 For who `is' God besides Jehovah? And who `is' a rock save our God? 
032 God! who is girding me `with' strength, And He maketh perfect my way. 
033 Making my feet like hinds, And on my high places causeth me to stand.  
034 Teaching my hands for battle, And a bow of brass was brought down by my arms.  
035 And Thou givest to me the shield of Thy salvation, And Thy right hand doth support me, And Thy lowliness maketh me great.  
036 Thou enlargest my step under me, And mine ankles have not slidden.  
037 I pursue mine enemies, and overtake them, And turn back not till they are consumed.  
038 I smite them, and they are not able to rise, They fall under my feet,  
039 And Thou girdest me `with' strength for battle, Causest my withstanders to bow under me. 
040 As to mine enemies -- Thou hast given to me the neck, As to those hating me -- I cut them off.  
041 They cry, and there is no saviour, On Jehovah, and He doth not answer them.  
042 And I beat them as dust before wind, As mire of the streets I empty them out.  
043 Thou dost deliver me From the strivings of the people, Thou placest me for a head of nations, A people I have not known do serve me.  
044 At the hearing of the ear they hearken to me, Sons of a stranger feign obedience to me,  
045 Sons of a stranger fade away, And are slain out of their close places.  
046 Jehovah liveth -- and blessed `is' my rock, And exalted is the God of my salvation. 
047 God -- who is giving vengeance to me, And He subdueth peoples under me,  
048 My deliverer from mine enemies, Above my withstanders Thou raisest me, From a man of violence dost deliver me.  
049 Therefore I confess Thee among nations, O Jehovah, And to Thy name I sing praise,  
050 Magnifying the salvation of His king, And doing kindness to His anointed, To David, and to his seed -- unto the age!  
