001 To the Overseer. -- By sons of Korah. An Instruction. O God, with our ears we have heard, Our fathers have recounted to us, The work Thou didst work in their days, In the days of old.  
002 Thou, `with' Thy hand, nations hast dispossessed. And Thou dost plant them. Thou afflictest peoples, and sendest them away. 
003 For, not by their sword Possessed they the land, And their arm gave not salvation to them, But Thy right hand, and Thine arm, And the light of Thy countenance, Because Thou hadst accepted them.  
004 Thou `art' He, my king, O God, Command the deliverances of Jacob. 
005 By Thee our adversaries we do push, By Thy name tread down our withstanders,  
006 For, not in my bow do I trust, And my sword doth not save me.  
007 For Thou hast saved us from our adversaries, And those hating us Thou hast put to shame.  
008 In God we have boasted all the day, And Thy name to the age we thank. Selah.  
009 In anger Thou hast cast off and causest us to blush, And goest not forth with our hosts.  
010 Thou causest us to turn backward from an adversary, And those hating us, Have spoiled for themselves.  
011 Thou makest us food like sheep, And among nations Thou hast scattered us.  
012 Thou sellest Thy people -- without wealth, And hast not become great by their price.  
013 Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, A scorn and a reproach to our surrounders.  
014 Thou makest us a simile among nations, A shaking of the head among peoples.  
015 All the day my confusion `is' before me, And the shame of my face hath covered me. 
016 Because of the voice of a reproacher and reviler, Because of an enemy and a self-avenger.  
017 All this met us, and we did not forget Thee, Nor have we dealt falsely in Thy covenant.  
018 We turn not backward our heart, Nor turn aside doth our step from Thy path.  
019 But Thou hast smitten us in a place of dragons, And dost cover us over with death-shade.  
020 If we have forgotten the name of our God, And spread our hands to a strange God,  
021 Doth not God search out this? For He knoweth the secrets of the heart.  
022 Surely, for Thy sake we have been slain all the day, Reckoned as sheep of the slaughter.  
023 Stir up -- why dost Thou sleep, O Lord? Awake, cast us not off for ever.  
024 Why Thy face hidest Thou? Thou forgettest our afflictions and our oppression,  
025 For bowed to the dust hath our soul, Cleaved to the earth hath our belly.  
026 Arise, a help to us, And ransom us for thy kindness' sake.  
