001 For the courses of the gatekeepers: of the Korhites `is' Meshelemiah son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph; 
002 and to Meshelemiah `are' sons, Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 
003 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.  
004 And to Obed-Edom `are' sons, Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fifth, 
005 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth, for God hath blessed him.  
006 And to Shemaiah his son have sons been born, who are ruling throughout the house of their father, for they `are' mighty of valour. 
007 Sons of Shemaiah `are' Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad; his brethren `are' sons of valour, Elihu and Semachiah, 
008 all these `are' of the sons of Obed-Edom; they, and their sons, and their brethren, men of valour with might for service, `are' sixty and two of Obed-Edom. 
009 And to Meshelemiah `are' sons and brethren, sons of valour, eighteen; 
010 and to Hosah, of the sons of Merari, `are' sons: Shimri the head (though he was not first-born, yet his father setteth him for head), 
011 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and brethren of Hosah `are' thirteen. 
012 According to these `are' the courses of the gatekeepers; to the heads of the mighty ones `are' charges over-against their brethren, to minister in the house of Jehovah, 
013 and they cause to fall lots, as well the small as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for gate and gate.  
014 And the lot falleth eastward to Shelemiah; and `for' Zechariah his son -- a counsellor with understanding -- they cause to fall lots, and his lot goeth out northward: 
015 to Obed-Edom southward, and to his sons, the house of the gatherings;  
016 to Shuppim and to Hosah to the west, with the gate Shallecheth, in the highway, the ascent, charge over-against charge;  
017 to the east the Levites `are' six; to the north daily four, to the south daily four, and to the gatherings two by two, 
018 at Parbar, to the west, `are' four at the highway, two at Parbar. 
019 These are the courses of the gatekeepers, of the sons of the Korhite, and of the sons of Merari.  
020 And of the Levites, Ahijah `is' over the treasures of the house of God, even for the treasures of the holy things. 
021 Sons of Laadan: sons of the Gershonite, of Laadan, heads of the fathers of Laadan the Gershonite: Jehieli.  
022 Sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and Joel his brother, over the treasures of the house of Jehovah,  
023 for the Amramite, for the Izharite, for the Hebronite, for the Uzzielite.  
024 And Shebuel son of Gershom, son of Moses, `is' president over the treasures. 
025 And his brethren, of Eliezer, `are' Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son. 
026 This Shelomith and his brethren `are' over all the treasures of the holy things, that David the king, and heads of the fathers, even heads of thousands, and of hundreds, and heads of the host, sanctified; 
027 from the battles, even from the spoil they sanctified to strengthen the house of Jehovah;  
028 and all that Samuel the seer, and Saul son of Kish, and Abner son of Ner, and Joab son of Zeruiah sanctified, every one sanctifying `any thing -- it is' by the side of Shelomith and his brethren. 
029 Of the Izharite, Chenaniah and his sons `are' for the outward work over Israel, for officers and for judges. 
030 Of the Hebronite, Hashabiah and his brethren, sons of valour, a thousand and seven hundred, `are' over the inspection of Israel, beyond the Jordan westward, for all the work of Jehovah, and for the service of the king. 
031 Of the Hebronite, Jerijah `is' the head, of the Hebronite, according to his generations, for the fathers -- in the fortieth year of the reign of David they have been sought out, and there are found among them mighty ones of valour, in Jazer of Gilead -- 
032 and his brethren, sons of valour, two thousand and seven hundred, `are' heads of the fathers, and king David appointeth them over the Reubenite, and the Gadite, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh, for every matter of God and matter of the king. 
