001 And gathered are all Israel unto David to Hebron, saying, `Lo, thy bone and thy flesh `are' we; 
002 even in time past, even in Saul's being king, it is thou who art taking out and bringing in Israel, and Jehovah thy God saith to thee: Thou dost feed My people Israel, and thou art leader over My people Israel.'  
003 And all the elders of Israel come in unto the king to Hebron, and David maketh with them a covenant in Hebron before Jehovah, and they anoint David for king over Israel, according to the word of Jehovah by the hand of Samuel.  
004 And David goeth, and all Israel, to Jerusalem -- it `is' Jebus -- and there the Jebusite, the inhabitants of the land. 
005 And the inhabitants of Jebus say to David, `Thou dost not come in hither;' and David captureth the fortress of Zion -- it `is' the city of David. 
006 And David saith, `Whoever smiteth the Jebusite first doth become head and prince;' and go up first doth Joab son of Zeruiah and becometh head.  
007 And David dwelleth in the fortress, therefore they have called it, `City of David;'  
008 and he buildeth the city round about, from Millo, and unto the circumference, and Joab restoreth the rest of the city.  
009 And David goeth, going on and becoming great, and Jehovah of Hosts `is' with him. 
010 And these `are' heads of the mighty ones whom David hath, who are strengthening themselves with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to cause him to reign, according to the word of Jehovah, over Israel. 
011 And this `is' an account of the mighty ones whom David hath: Jashobeam son of a Hachmonite `is' head of the thirty; he is lifting up his spear against three hundred -- wounded, at one time. 
012 And after him `is' Eleazar son of Dodo the Ahohite, he `is' among the three mighty; 
013 he hath been with David in Pas-Dammim, and the Philistines have been gathered there to battle, and a portion of the field is full of barley, and the people have fled from the face of the Philistines,  
014 and they station themselves in the midst of the portion, and deliver it, and smite the Philistines, and Jehovah saveth -- a great salvation.  
015 And three of the thirty heads go down on the rock unto David, unto the cave of Adullam, and the host of the Philistines is encamping in the valley of Rephaim,  
016 and David `is' then in the fortress, and the station of the Philistines `is' then in Beth-Lehem, 
017 and David longeth, and saith, `Who doth give me to drink water from the well of Beth-Lehem, that `is' at the gate!' 
018 And the three break through the camp of the Philistines, and draw water from the well of Beth-Lehem, that `is' at the gate, and bear and bring in unto David, and David hath not been willing to drink it, and poureth it out to Jehovah, 
019 and saith, `Far be it from me, by my God, to do this; the blood of these men do I drink with their lives? for with their lives they have brought it;' and he was not willing to drink it; these `things' did the three mighty ones. 
020 And Abishai brother of Joab, he hath been head of the three: and he is lifting up his spear against three hundred -- wounded, and hath a name among three.  
021 Of the three by the two he is honoured, and becometh their head; and unto the `first' three he hath not come. 
022 Benaiah son of Jehoiada, son of a man of valour, of great deeds, from Kabzeel: he hath smitten the two lion-like Moabites, and he hath gone down and smitten the lion in the midst of the pit, in the day of snow.  
023 And he hath smitten the man, the Egyptian -- a man of measure, five by the cubit -- and in the hand of the Egyptian `is' a spear like a beam of weavers, and he goeth down unto him with a rod, and taketh violently away the spear out of the hand of the Egyptian, and slayeth him with his own spear. 
024 These `things' hath Benaiah son of Jehoiada done, and hath a name among the three mighty ones. 
025 Of the thirty, lo, he `is' honoured, and unto the `first' three he hath not come, and David setteth him over his guard. 
026 And the mighty ones of the forces `are' Asahel brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo of Beth-Lehem, 
027 Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,  
028 Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abi-Ezer the Annethothite,  
029 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,  
030 Maharai the Netophathite, Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite,  
031 Ithai son of Ribai of Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,  
032 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,  
033 Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,  
034 the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shage the Hararite,  
035 Ahiam son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal son of Ur,  
036 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,  
037 Hezor the Carmelite, Naarai son of Ezbai,  
038 Joel brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Haggeri,  
039 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, bearer of the weapons of Joab son of Zeruiah,  
040 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,  
041 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad son of Ahlai,  
042 Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, head of the Reubenites, and by him thirty,  
043 Hanan son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,  
044 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel sons of Hothan the Aroerite,  
045 Jediael son of Shimri, and Joha his brother the Tizite,  
046 Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,  
047 Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mesobaite.  
