001 And sons of Issachar; Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.  
002 And sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of the house of their fathers, `even' of Tola, mighty of valour in their generations: their number in the days of David `is' twenty and two thousand and six hundred. 
003 And sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah; and sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, Hamishah -- all of them heads.  
004 And beside them, by their generations, of the house of their fathers, `are' troops of the host of battle, thirty and six thousand, for they multiplied wives and sons; 
005 and their brethren of all the families of Issachar `are' mighty of valour, eighty and seven thousand, all have their genealogy. 
006 Of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.  
007 And sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of a house of fathers, mighty of valour, with their genealogy, twenty and two thousand, and thirty and four.  
008 And sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezar, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alameth. All these `are' sons of Becher, 
009 with their genealogy, after their generations, heads of a house of their fathers, mighty of valour, twenty thousand and two hundred.  
010 And sons of Jediael: Bilhan; and sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.  
011 All these `are' sons of Jediael, even heads of the fathers, mighty in valour, seventeen thousand and two hundred going out to the host for battle. 
012 And Shuppim and Huppim `are' sons of Ir; Hushim son of Aher. 
013 Sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, sons of Bilhah.  
014 Sons of Manasseh: Ashriel, whom Jaladah his Aramaean concubine bare, with Machir father of Gilead.  
015 And Machir took wives for Huppim and for Shuppim, and the name of the one `is' Maachah, and the name of the second Zelophehad, and Zelophehad hath daughters. 
016 And Maachah wife of Machir beareth a son and calleth his name Peresh, and the name of his brother `is' Sheresh, and his sons `are' Ulam and Rakem. 
017 And son of Ulam: Bedan. These `are' sons of Gilead son of Machir, son of Manasseh. 
018 And his sister Hammolecheth bare Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.  
019 And the sons of Shemida are Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.  
020 And sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,  
021 and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead; and slain them have men of Gath who are born in the land, because they came down to take their cattle.  
022 And Ephraim their father mourneth many days, and his brethren come in to comfort him,  
023 and he goeth in unto his wife, and she conceiveth and beareth a son, and he calleth his name Beriah, because in evil had been his house, --  
024 and his daughter `is' Sherah, and she buildeth Beth-Horon, the lower and the upper, and Uzzen-Sherah -- 
025 and Rephah `is' his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son, 
026 Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,  
027 Non his son, Jehoshua his son.  
028 And their possession and their dwellings `are' Beth-El and its small towns, and to the east Naaran, and to the west Gezer and its small towns, and Shechem and its small towns, unto Gaza and its small towns; 
029 and by the parts of the sons of Manasseh, Beth-Shean and its small towns, Taanach and its small towns, Megiddo and its small towns, Dor and its small towns; in these dwelt the sons of Joseph son of Israel.  
030 Son of Asher: Imnah, and Ishve, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.  
031 And sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel -- he `is' father of Birzavith. 
032 And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.  
033 And sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these `are' sons of Japhlet. 
034 and sons of Shamer: Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.  
035 And son of Helem his brother: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.  
036 Sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,  
037 Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.  
038 And sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.  
039 And sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rezia.  
040 All these `are' sons of Asher, heads of the house of the fathers, chosen ones, mighty in valour, heads of the princes, with their genealogy, for the host, for battle, their number `is' twenty and six thousand men. 
