001 And they bring in the ark of God, and set it up in the midst of the tent that David hath stretched out for it, and they bring near burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before God;  
002 and David ceaseth from offering the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, and blesseth the people in the name of Jehovah,  
003 and giveth a portion to every man of Israel, both man and woman: to each a cake of bread, and a measure of wine, and a grape-cake.  
004 And he putteth before the ark of Jehovah, of the Levites, ministers, even to make mention of, and to thank, and to give praise to Jehovah, God of Israel,  
005 Asaph the head, and his second Zechariah; Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, with instruments of psalteries, and with harps; and Asaph with cymbals is sounding;  
006 and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests `are' with trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 
007 On that day then hath David given at the beginning to give thanks to Jehovah by the hand of Asaph and his brethren: --  
008 Give thanks to Jehovah, call in His name, Make known among the peoples His doings.  
009 Sing ye to Him, sing psalms to Him, Meditate on all His wonders.  
010 Boast yourselves in His holy name, Rejoice doth the heart of those seeking Jehovah.  
011 Seek ye Jehovah and His strength, Seek His face continually.  
012 Remember His wonders that He did, His signs, and the judgments of His mouth,  
013 O seed of Israel, His servant, O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!  
014 He `is' Jehovah our God, In all the earth `are' His judgments. 
015 Remember ye to the age His covenant, The word He commanded -- To a thousand generations,  
016 Which He hath made with Abraham, And His oath -- to Isaac,  
017 And He establisheth it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel -- a covenant age-during.  
018 Saying: To thee I give the land of Canaan, The portion of your inheritance,  
019 When ye are few of number, As a little thing, and sojourners in it.  
020 And they go up and down, From nation unto nation, And from a kingdom unto another people.  
021 He hath not suffered any to oppress them, And reproveth on their account kings:  
022 Come not against Mine anointed ones, And against My prophets do not evil.  
023 Sing to Jehovah, all the earth, Proclaim from day unto day His salvation.  
024 Rehearse among nations His glory, Among all the peoples His wonders.  
025 For great `is' Jehovah, and praised greatly, And fearful He `is' above all gods. 
026 For all gods of the peoples `are' nought, And Jehovah the heavens hath made. 
027 Honour and majesty `are' before Him, Strength and joy `are' in His place. 
028 Ascribe to Jehovah, ye families of peoples, Ascribe to Jehovah honour and strength.  
029 Ascribe to Jehovah the honour of His name, Lift up a present, and come before Him. Bow yourselves to Jehovah, In the beauty of holiness.  
030 Be pained before Him, all the earth:  
031 Also, established is the world, It is not moved! The heavens rejoice, and the earth is glad, And they say among nations: Jehovah hath reigned.  
032 Roar doth the sea, and its fulness, Exult doth the field, and all that `is' in it, 
033 Then sing do trees of the forest, From the presence of Jehovah, For He hath come to judge the earth!  
034 Give thanks to Jehovah, for good, For to the age, `is' His kindness, 
035 And say, Save us, O God of our salvation, And gather us, and deliver us from the nations, To give thanks to Thy holy name, To triumph in Thy praise.  
036 Blessed `is' Jehovah, God of Israel, From the age and unto the age;' And all the people say, `Amen,' and have given praise to Jehovah. 
037 And he leaveth there before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, for Asaph and for his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, according to the matter of a day in its day,  
038 both Obed-Edom and their brethren, sixty and eight, and Obed-Edom son of Jeduthun, and Hosah for gatekeepers,  
039 and Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the tabernacle of Jehovah, in a high place that `is' in Gibeon, 
040 to cause to ascend burnt-offerings to Jehovah, on the altar of burnt-offering continually, morning and evening, and for all that is written in the law of Jehovah, that He charged on Israel.  
041 And with them `are' Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest of those chosen, who were defined by name, to give thanks to Jehovah, for to the age `is' His kindness, 
042 and with them -- Heman and Jeduthun -- `are' trumpets and cymbals for those sounding, and instruments of the song of God, and the sons of Jeduthun `are' at the gate. 
043 And all the people go, each to his house, and David turneth round to bless his house.  
