001 And to the sons of Aaron `are' their courses: sons of Aaron `are' Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar, 
002 and Nadab dieth, and Abihu, in the presence of their father, and they had no sons, and Eleazar and Ithamar act as priests.  
003 And David distributeth them, and Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their office in their service;  
004 and there are found of the sons of Eleazar more for heads of the mighty men than of the sons of Ithamar; and they distribute them: Of the sons of Eleazar, heads for a house of fathers, sixteen; and of the sons of Ithamar, for a house of their fathers, eight.  
005 And they distribute them, by lots, one with another, for princes of the sanctuary, and princes of God, have been of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.  
006 And Shemaiah son of Nethaneel the scribe, of the Levites, writeth them before the king and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and heads of the fathers, for priests and for Levites: one house of a father being taken possession of for Eleazar, and one being taken possession of for Ithamar.  
007 And the first lot goeth out for Jehoiarib, for Jedaiah the second,  
008 for Harim the third, for Seorim the fourth,  
009 for Malchijah the fifth, for Mijamin the sixth,  
010 for Hakkoz the seventh, for Abijah the eighth,  
011 for Jeshuah the ninth, for Shecaniah the tenth,  
012 for Eliashib the eleventh, for Jakim the twelfth,  
013 for Huppah the thirteenth, for Jeshebeab the fourteenth,  
014 for Bilgah the fifteenth, for Immer the sixteenth,  
015 for Hezir the seventeenth, for Aphses the eighteenth,  
016 for Pethahiah the nineteenth, for Jehezekel the twentieth,  
017 for Jachin the one and twentieth, for Gamul the two and twentieth,  
018 for Delaiah the three and twentieth, for Maaziah the four and twentieth.  
019 These `are' their appointments for their service, to come in to the house of Jehovah, according to their ordinance by the hand of Aaron their father, as Jehovah God of Israel, commanded them. 
020 And for the sons of Levi who are left: for sons of Amram, Shubael; for sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah.  
021 For Rehabiah: for sons of Rehabiah, the head Ishshiah.  
022 For the Izharite: Shelomoth; for sons of Shelomoth: Jahath.  
023 And sons of Jeriah: Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.  
024 Sons of Uzziel: Michah; for sons of Michah: Shamir.  
025 A brother of Michah `is' Ishshiah; for sons of Ishshiah: Zechariah; 
026 sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; sons of Jaaziah: Beno;  
027 sons of Merari: of Jaaziah: Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.  
028 For Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons;  
029 for Kish: sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.  
030 And sons of Mushi `are' Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth; these `are' sons of the Levites, for the house of their fathers, 
031 and they cast, they also, lots over-against their brethren the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and heads of the fathers, for priests and for Levites; the chief father over-against his younger brother.  
