001 And David is old, and satisfied with days, and causeth his son Solomon to reign over Israel,  
002 and gathereth all the heads of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites;  
003 and the Levites are numbered from a son of thirty years and upward, and their number, by their polls, is of mighty men thirty and eight thousand.  
004 Of these to preside over the work of the house of Jehovah `are' twenty and four thousand, and officers and judges six thousand, 
005 and four thousand gatekeepers, and four thousand giving praise to Jehovah, `with instruments that I made for praising,' `saith David.' 
006 And David distributeth them into courses: Of the sons of Levi: of Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.  
007 Of the Gershonite: Laadan and Shimei.  
008 Sons of Laadan: the head `is' Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel, three. 
009 Sons of Shimei `are' Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three; these `are' heads of the fathers of Laadan. 
010 And sons of Shimei `are' Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah; these `are' sons of Shimei, four. 
011 And Jahath is the head, and Zizah the second, and Jeush and Beriah have not multiplied sons, and they become the house of a father by one numbering.  
012 Sons of Kohath `are' Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four. 
013 Sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and Aaron is separated for his sanctifying the holy of holies, he and his sons -- unto the age, to make perfume before Jehovah, to serve Him, and to bless in His name -- unto the age.  
014 As to Moses, the man of God, his sons are called after the tribe of Levi.  
015 Sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.  
016 Sons of Gershom: Shebuel the head.  
017 And sons of Eliezer are Rehabiah the head, and Eliezer had no other sons, and the sons of Rehabiah have multiplied exceedingly.  
018 Sons of Izhar: Shelomith the head.  
019 Sons of Hebron: Jeriah the head, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.  
020 Sons of Uzziel: Micah the head, and Ishshiah, the second.  
021 Sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.  
022 And Eleazar dieth, and he had no sons, but daughters, and sons of Kish their brethren take them.  
023 Sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth, three.  
024 These `are' sons of Levi, by the house of their fathers, heads of the fathers, by their appointments, in the number of names, by their polls, doing the work for the service of the house of Jehovah, from a son of twenty years and upward, 
025 for David said, `Jehovah, God of Israel, hath given rest to His people, and He doth tabernacle in Jerusalem unto the age;'  
026 and also of the Levites, `None `are' to bear the tabernacle and all its vessels for its service;' 
027 for by the last words of David they `took' the number of the sons of Levi from a son of twenty years and upward, 
028 for their station `is' at the side of the sons of Aaron, for the service of the house of Jehovah, over the courts, and over the chambers, and over the cleansing of every holy thing, and the work of the service of the house of God, 
029 and for the bread of the arrangement, and for fine flour for present, and for the thin unleavened cakes, and for `the work of' the pan, and for that which is fried, and for all `liquid' measure and `solid' measure; 
030 and to stand, morning by morning, to give thanks, and to give praise to Jehovah, and so at evening;  
031 and for all the burnt-offerings -- burnt-offerings to Jehovah for sabbaths, for new moons, and for appointed seasons, by number, according to the ordinance upon them continually, before Jehovah.  
032 And they have kept the charge of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the sons of Aaron, their brethren, for the service of the house of Jehovah.  
