001 And all Israel have reckoned themselves by genealogy, and lo, they are written on the book of the kings of Israel and Judah -- they were removed to Babylon for their trespass.  
002 And the first inhabitants, who `are' in their possession, in their cities, of Israel, `are' the priests, the Levites, and the Nethinim. 
003 And in Jerusalem dwelt of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin, and of the sons of Ephraim and Manasseh:  
004 Uthai son of Ammihud, son of Omri, son of Imri, son of Bani, of the sons of Pharez, son of Judah.  
005 And of the Shilonite: Asaiah the first-born, and his sons.  
006 And of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brethren, six hundred and ninety.  
007 And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, son of Hassenuah,  
008 and Ibneiah son of Jeroham, and Elah son of Uzzi, son of Michri, and Meshullam son of Shephatiah, son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah.  
009 And their brethren, according to their generations, `are' nine hundred and fifty and six. All these `are' men, heads of fathers, according to the house of their fathers. 
010 And of the priests: Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin,  
011 and Azariah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, leader in the house of God;  
012 and Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah, and Maasai son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer.  
013 And their brethren, heads to the house of their fathers, a thousand and seven hundred and sixty, mighty in valour, `are' for the work of the service of the house of God. 
014 And of the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hashshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;  
015 and Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah son of Micah, son of Zichri, son of Asaph;  
016 and Obadiah son of Shemariah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah, son of Asa, son of Elkanah, who is dwelling in the villages of the Netophathite.  
017 And the gatekeepers `are' Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brethren -- Shallum `is' the head; 
018 and hitherto they `are' at the gate of the king eastward; they `are' the gatekeepers for the companies of the sons of Levi. 
019 And Shallum son of Kore, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah, and his brethren, of the house of his father, the Korahites, `are' over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent, and their fathers `are' over the camp of Jehovah, keepers of the entrance; 
020 and Phinehas son of Eleazar hath been leader over them formerly; Jehovah `is' with him. 
021 Zechariah son of Meshelemiah `is' gatekeeper at the opening of the tent of meeting. 
022 All of those who are chosen for gatekeepers at the thresholds `are' two hundred and twelve; they `are' in their villages, by their genealogy; they whom David and Samuel the seer appointed in their office. 
023 And they and their sons `are' over the gates of the house of Jehovah, even of the house of the tent, by watches. 
024 At four sides are the gatekeepers, east, west, north, and south.  
025 And their brethren in their villages `are' to come in for seven days from time to time with these. 
026 For in office `are' the four chiefs of the gatekeepers, they are Levites, and they have been over the chambers, and over the treasuries of the house of God, 
027 and round about the house of God they lodge, for on them `is' the watch, and they `are' over the opening, even morning by morning. 
028 And `some' of them `are' over the vessels of service, for by number they bring them in, and by number they take them out. 
029 And `some' of them are appointed over the vessels, even over all the vessels of the sanctuary, and over the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices. 
030 And `some' of the sons of the priests are mixing the mixture for spices. 
031 And Mattithiah, of the Levites (he `is' the first-born to Shallum the Korahite), `is' in office over the work of the pans. 
032 And of the sons of the Kohathite, `some' of their brethren `are' over the bread of the arrangement, to prepare `it' sabbath by sabbath. 
033 And these who sing, heads of fathers of the Levites, in the chambers, `are' free, for by day and by night `they are' over them in the work. 
034 These heads of the fathers of the Levites throughout their generations `are' heads. These have dwelt in Jerusalem. 
035 And in Gibeon dwelt hath the father of Gibeon, Jehiel, and the name of his wife `is' Maachah; 
036 and his son, the first-born, `is' Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab, 
037 and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.  
038 And Mikloth begat Shimeam, and they also, over-against their brethren, have dwelt in Jerusalem with their brethren.  
039 And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchi-Shua, and Abinadab, and Esh-Baal.  
040 And a son of Jonathan `is' Merib-Baal, and Merib-Baal begat Micah. 
041 And sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea,  
042 and Ahaz -- he begat Jaarah, and Jaarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri, and Zimri begat Moza,  
043 and Moza begat Binea, and Rephaiah `is' his son. Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
044 And to Azel `are' six sons, and these their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: these `are' sons of Azel. 
