001 Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops; siege is laid against us; with a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. 
002 But you, O Bethlehem Ephrathah, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose origin is from of old, from ancient days. 
003 Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth; then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel. 
004 And he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. 
005 And he shall be their peace. When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men; 
006 they shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod at its entrances; and he shall deliver us from the Assyrian when he comes into our land and treads within our border. 
007 Then the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples like dew from the LORD, like showers on the grass, which delay not for a man nor wait for the children of man. 
008 And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among the flocks of sheep, which, when it goes through, treads down and tears in pieces, and there is none to deliver. 
009 Your hand shall be lifted up over your adversaries, and all your enemies shall be cut off. 
010 And in that day, declares the LORD, I will cut off your horses from among you and will destroy your chariots; 
011 and I will cut off the cities of your land and throw down all your strongholds; 
012 and I will cut off sorceries from your hand, and you shall have no more tellers of fortunes; 
013 and I will cut off your carved images and your pillars from among you, and you shall bow down no more to the work of your hands; 
014 and I will root out your Asherah images from among you and destroy your cities. 
015 And in anger and wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations that did not obey. 
