001 Dead flies make the perfumer's ointment give off a stench; so a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor. 
002 A wise man's heart inclines him to the right, but a fool's heart to the left. 
003 Even when the fool walks on the road, he lacks sense, and he says to everyone that he is a fool. 
004 If the anger of the ruler rises against you, do not leave your place, for calmness will lay great offenses to rest. 
005 There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as it were an error proceeding from the ruler: 
006 folly is set in many high places, and the rich sit in a low place. 
007 I have seen slaves on horses, and princes walking on the ground like slaves. 
008 He who digs a pit will fall into it, and a serpent will bite him who breaks through a wall. 
009 He who quarries stones is hurt by them, and he who splits logs is endangered by them. 
010 If the iron is blunt, and one does not sharpen the edge, he must use more strength, but wisdom helps one to succeed. 
011 If the serpent bites before it is charmed, there is no advantage to the charmer. 
012 The words of a wise man's mouth win him favor, but the lips of a fool consume him. 
013 The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness, and the end of his talk is evil madness. 
014 A fool multiplies words, though no man knows what is to be, and who can tell him what will be after him? 
015 The toil of a fool wearies him, for he does not know the way to the city. 
016 Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes feast in the morning! 
017 Happy are you, O land, when your king is the son of the nobility, and your princes feast at the proper time, for strength, and not for drunkenness! 
018 Through sloth the roof sinks in, and through indolence the house leaks. 
019 Bread is made for laughter, and wine gladdens life, and money answers everything. 
020 Even in your thought, do not curse the king, nor in your bedroom curse the rich, for a bird of the air will carry your voice, or some winged creature tell the matter. 
