001 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. 
002 My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations; 
003 Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. 
004 But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. 
005 If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. 
006 But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. 
007 For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord. 
008 A double minded man is unstable in all his ways. 
009 Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted: 
010 But the rich, in that he is made low: because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. 
011 For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. 
012 Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. 
013 Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man: 
014 But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed. 
015 Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. 
016 Do not err, my beloved brethren. 
017 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. 
018 Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. 
019 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath: 
020 For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. 
021 Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. 
022 But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. 
023 For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass: 
024 For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. 
025 But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. 
026 If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain. 
027 Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. 
