001 Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is crooked in speech and is a fool. 
002 Desire without knowledge is not good, and whoever makes haste with his feet misses his way. 
003 When a man's folly brings his way to ruin, his heart rages against the LORD. 
004 Wealth brings many new friends, but a poor man is deserted by his friend. 
005 A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will not escape. 
006 Many seek the favor of a generous man, and everyone is a friend to a man who gives gifts. 
007 All a poor man's brothers hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him! He pursues them with words, but does not have them. 
008 Whoever gets sense loves his own soul; he who keeps understanding will discover good. 
009 A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will perish. 
010 It is not fitting for a fool to live in luxury, much less for a slave to rule over princes. 
011 Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense. 
012 A king's wrath is like the growling of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass. 
013 A foolish son is ruin to his father, and a wife's quarreling is a continual dripping of rain. 
014 House and wealth are inherited from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the LORD. 
015 Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep, and an idle person will suffer hunger. 
016 Whoever keeps the commandment keeps his life; he who despises his ways will die. 
017 Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the LORD, and he will repay him for his deed. 
018 Discipline your son, for there is hope; do not set your heart on putting him to death. 
019 A man of great wrath will pay the penalty, for if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again. 
020 Listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom in the future. 
021 Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the LORD that will stand. 
022 What is desired in a man is steadfast love, and a poor man is better than a liar. 
023 The fear of the LORD leads to life, and whoever has it rests satisfied; he will not be visited by harm. 
024 The sluggard buries his hand in the dish and will not even bring it back to his mouth. 
025 Strike a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence; reprove a man of understanding, and he will gain knowledge. 
026 He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother is a son who brings shame and reproach. 
027 Cease to hear instruction, my son, and you will stray from the words of knowledge. 
028 A worthless witness mocks at justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity. 
029 Condemnation is ready for scoffers, and beating for the backs of fools. 
