001 The words of Agur son of Jakeh. The oracle. The man declares, I am weary, O God; I am weary, O God, and worn out. 
002 Surely I am too stupid to be a man. I have not the understanding of a man. 
003 I have not learned wisdom, nor have I knowledge of the Holy One. 
004 Who has ascended to heaven and come down? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has wrapped up the waters in a garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son's name? Surely you know! 
005 Every word of God proves true; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. 
006 Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. 
007 Two things I ask of you; deny them not to me before I die: 
008 Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me, 
009 lest I be full and deny you and say, `Who is the LORD?` or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. 
010 Do not slander a servant to his master, lest he curse you and you be held guilty. 
011 There are those who curse their fathers and do not bless their mothers. 
012 There are those who are clean in their own eyes but are not washed of their filth. 
013 There are those- how lofty are their eyes, how high their eyelids lift! 
014 There are those whose teeth are swords, whose fangs are knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, the needy from among mankind. 
015 The leech has two daughters; `Give` and `Give,` they cry. Three things are never satisfied; four never say, `Enough`: 
016 Sheol, the barren womb, the land never satisfied with water, and the fire that never says, `Enough.` 
017 The eye that mocks a father and scorns to obey a mother will be picked out by the ravens of the valley and eaten by the vultures. 
018 Three things are too wonderful for me; four I do not understand: 
019 the way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas, and the way of a man with a virgin. 
020 This is the way of an adulteress: she eats and wipes her mouth and says, `I have done no wrong.` 
021 Under three things the earth trembles; under four it cannot bear up: 
022 a slave when he becomes king, and a fool when he is filled with food; 
023 an unloved woman when she gets a husband, and a maidservant when she displaces her mistress. 
024 Four things on earth are small, but they are exceedingly wise: 
025 the ants are a people not strong, yet they provide their food in the summer; 
026 the rock badgers are a people not mighty, yet they make their homes in the cliffs; 
027 the locusts have no king, yet all of them march in rank; 
028 the lizard you can take in your hands, yet it is in kings' palaces. 
029 Three things are stately in their tread; four are stately in their stride: 
030 the lion, which is mightiest among beasts and does not turn back before any; 
031 the strutting rooster, the he-goat, and a king whose army is with him. 
032 If you have been foolish, exalting yourself, or if you have been devising evil, put your hand on your mouth. 
033 For pressing milk produces curds, pressing the nose produces blood, and pressing anger produces strife. 
