001 And it cometh to pass, at the end of two years of days that Pharaoh is dreaming, and lo, he is standing by the River,  
002 and lo, from the River coming up are seven kine, of fair appearance, and fat `in' flesh, and they feed among the reeds; 
003 and lo, seven other kine are coming up after them out of the River, of bad appearance, and lean `in' flesh, and they stand near the kine on the edge of the River, 
004 and the kine of bad appearance and lean `in' flesh eat up the seven kine of fair appearance, and fat -- and Pharaoh awaketh. 
005 And he sleepeth, and dreameth a second time, and lo, seven ears are coming up on one stalk, fat and good,  
006 and lo, seven ears, thin, and blasted with an east wind, are springing up after them;  
007 and the thin ears swallow the seven fat and full ears -- and Pharaoh awaketh, and lo, a dream.  
008 And it cometh to pass in the morning, that his spirit is moved, and he sendeth and calleth all the scribes of Egypt, and all its wise men, and Pharaoh recounteth to them his dream, and there is no interpreter of them to Pharaoh.  
009 And the chief of the butlers speaketh with Pharaoh, saying, `My sin I mention this day:  
010 Pharaoh hath been wroth against his servants, and giveth me into charge in the house of the chief of the executioners, me and the chief of the bakers;  
011 and we dream a dream in one night, I and he, each according to the interpretation of his dream we have dreamed.  
012 And there `is' with us a youth, a Hebrew, servant to the chief of the executioners, and we recount to him, and he interpreteth to us our dreams, `to' each according to his dream hath he interpreted, 
013 and it cometh to pass, as he hath interpreted to us so it hath been, me he put back on my station, and him he hanged.'  
014 And Pharaoh sendeth and calleth Joseph, and they cause him to run out of the pit, and he shaveth, and changeth his garments, and cometh in unto Pharaoh.  
015 And Pharaoh saith unto Joseph, `A dream I have dreamed, and there is no interpreter of it, and I -- I have heard concerning thee, saying, Thou understandest a dream to interpret it,'  
016 and Joseph answereth Pharaoh, saying, `Without me -- God doth answer Pharaoh with peace.'  
017 And Pharaoh speaketh unto Joseph: `In my dream, lo, I am standing by the edge of the River,  
018 and lo, out of the River coming up are seven kine, fat `in' flesh, and of fair form, and they feed among the reeds; 
019 and lo, seven other kine are coming up after them, thin, and of very bad form, and lean `in' flesh; I have not seen like these in all the land of Egypt for badness. 
020 `And the lean and the bad kine eat up the first seven fat kine,  
021 and they come in unto their midst, and it hath not been known that they have come in unto their midst, and their appearance `is' bad as at the commencement; and I awake. 
022 `And I see in my dream, and lo, seven ears are coming up on one stalk, full and good;  
023 and lo, seven ears, withered, thin, blasted with an east wind, are springing up after them;  
024 and the thin ears swallow the seven good ears; and I tell unto the scribes, and there is none declaring to me.'  
025 And Joseph saith unto Pharaoh, `The dream of Pharaoh is one: that which God is doing he hath declared to Pharaoh;  
026 the seven good kine are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years, the dream is one;  
027 and the seven thin and bad kine which are coming up after them are seven years, and the seven empty ears, blasted with an east wind, are seven years of famine;  
028 this `is' the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: That which God is doing, he hath shewn Pharaoh. 
029 `Lo, seven years are coming of great abundance in all the land of Egypt,  
030 and seven years of famine have arisen after them, and all the plenty is forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine hath finished the land,  
031 and the plenty is not known in the land because of that famine afterwards, for it `is' very grievous. 
032 `And because of the repeating of the dream unto Pharaoh twice, surely the thing is established by God, and God is hastening to do it.  
033 `And now, let Pharaoh provide a man, intelligent and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt;  
034 let Pharaoh make and appoint overseers over the land, and receive a fifth of the land of Egypt in the seven years of plenty,  
035 and they gather all the food of these good years that are coming, and heap up corn under the hand of Pharaoh -- food in the cities; and they have kept `it', 
036 and the food hath been for a store for the land, for the seven years of famine which are in the land of Egypt; and the land is cut off by the famine.'  
037 And the thing is good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants,  
038 and Pharaoh saith unto his servants, `Do we find like this, a man in whom the spirit of God `is'?' 
039 and Pharaoh saith unto Joseph, `After God's causing thee to know all this, there is none intelligent and wise as thou;  
040 thou -- thou art over my house, and at thy mouth do all my people kiss; only in the throne I am greater than thou.'  
041 And Pharaoh saith unto Joseph, `See, I have put thee over all the land of Egypt.'  
042 And Pharaoh turneth aside his seal-ring from off his hand, and putteth it on the hand of Joseph, and clotheth him `with' garments of fine linen, and placeth a chain of gold on his neck, 
043 and causeth him to ride in the second chariot which he hath, and they proclaim before him, `Bow the knee!' and -- to put him over all the land of Egypt.  
044 And Pharaoh saith unto Joseph, `I `am' Pharaoh, and without thee a man doth not lift up his hand and his foot in all the land of Egypt;' 
045 and Pharaoh calleth Joseph's name Zaphnath-Paaneah, and he giveth to him Asenath daughter of Poti-Pherah, priest of On, for a wife, and Joseph goeth out over the land of Egypt.  
046 And Joseph `is' a son of thirty years in his standing before Pharaoh king of Egypt, and Joseph goeth out from the presence of Pharaoh, and passeth over through all the land of Egypt; 
047 and the land maketh in the seven years of plenty by handfuls.  
048 And he gathereth all the food of the seven years which have been in the land of Egypt, and putteth food in the cities; the food of the field which `is' round about `each' city hath he put in its midst; 
049 and Joseph gathereth corn as sand of the sea, multiplying exceedingly, until that he hath ceased to number, for there is no number.  
050 And to Joseph were born two sons before the year of famine cometh, whom Asenath daughter of Poti-Pherah, priest of On, hath borne to him,  
051 and Joseph calleth the name of the first-born Manasseh: `for, God hath made me to forget all my labour, and all the house of my father;'  
052 and the name of the second he hath called Ephraim: `for, God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of mine affliction.'  
053 And the seven years of plenty are completed which have been in the land of Egypt,  
054 and the seven years of famine begin to come, as Joseph said, and famine is in all the lands, but in all the land of Egypt hath been bread;  
055 and all the land of Egypt is famished, and the people crieth unto Pharaoh for bread, and Pharaoh saith to all the Egyptians, `Go unto Joseph; that which he saith to you -- do.'  
056 And the famine has been over all the face of the land, and Joseph openeth all `places' which have `corn' in them, and selleth to the Egyptians; and the famine is severe in the land of Egypt, 
057 and all the earth hath come to Egypt, to buy, unto Joseph, for the famine was severe in all the earth.  
