001 And the whole earth is of one pronunciation, and of the same words,  
002 and it cometh to pass, in their journeying from the east, that they find a valley in the land of Shinar, and dwell there;  
003 and they say each one to his neighbour, `Give help, let us make bricks, and burn `them' thoroughly:' and the brick is to them for stone, and the bitumen hath been to them for mortar. 
004 And they say, `Give help, let us build for ourselves a city and tower, and its head in the heavens, and make for ourselves a name, lest we be scattered over the face of all the earth.'  
005 And Jehovah cometh down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men have builded;  
006 and Jehovah saith, `Lo, the people `is' one, and one pronunciation `is' to them all, and this it hath dreamed of doing; and now, nothing is restrained from them of that which they have purposed to do. 
007 Give help, let us go down, and mingle there their pronunciation, so that a man doth not understand the pronunciation of his companion.'  
008 And Jehovah doth scatter them from thence over the face of all the earth, and they cease to build the city;  
009 therefore hath `one' called its name Babel, for there hath Jehovah mingled the pronunciation of all the earth, and from thence hath Jehovah scattered them over the face of all the earth. 
010 These `are' births of Shem: Shem `is' a son of an hundred years, and begetteth Arphaxad two years after the deluge. 
011 And Shem liveth after his begetting Arphaxad five hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
012 And Arphaxad hath lived five and thirty years, and begetteth Salah.  
013 And Arphaxad liveth after his begetting Salah four hundred and three years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
014 And Salah hath lived thirty years, and begetteth Eber.  
015 And Salah liveth after his begetting Eber four hundred and three years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
016 And Eber liveth four and thirty years, and begetteth Peleg.  
017 And Eber liveth after his begetting Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
018 And Peleg liveth thirty years, and begetteth Reu.  
019 And Peleg liveth after his begetting Reu two hundred and nine years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
020 And Reu liveth two and thirty years, and begetteth Serug.  
021 And Reu liveth after his begetting Serug two hundred and seven years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
022 And Serug liveth thirty years, and begetteth Nahor.  
023 And Serug liveth after his begetting Nahor two hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
024 And Nahor liveth nine and twenty years, and begetteth Terah.  
025 And Nahor liveth after his begetting Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
026 And Terah liveth seventy years, and begetteth Abram, Nahor, and Haran.  
027 And these `are' births of Terah: Terah hath begotten Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran hath begotten Lot; 
028 and Haran dieth in the presence of Terah his father, in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees.  
029 And Abram and Nahor take to themselves wives; the name of Abram's wife `is' Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife `is' Milcah, daughter of Haran, father of Milcah, and father of Iscah. 
030 And Sarai is barren -- she hath no child.  
031 And Terah taketh Abram his son, and Lot, son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, wife of Abram his son, and they go out with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go towards the land of Canaan; and they come unto Charan, and dwell there.  
032 And the days of Terah are two hundred and five years, and Terah dieth in Charan.  
