001 And these `are' births of Esau, who `is' Edom. 
002 Esau hath taken his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon the Hivite,  
003 and Bashemath daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebajoth.  
004 And Adah beareth to Esau, Eliphaz; and Bashemath hath born Reuel;  
005 and Aholibamah hath born Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. These `are' sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan. 
006 And Esau taketh his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance which he hath acquired in the land of Canaan, and goeth into the country from the face of Jacob his brother;  
007 for their substance was more abundant than to dwell together, and the land of their sojournings was not able to bear them because of their cattle;  
008 and Esau dwelleth in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.  
009 And these `are' births of Esau, father of Edom, in mount Seir. 
010 These `are' the names of the sons of Esau: Eliphaz son of Adah, wife of Esau; Reuel son of Bashemath, wife of Esau. 
011 And the sons of Eliphaz are Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz;  
012 and Timnath hath been concubine to Eliphaz son of Esau, and she beareth to Eliphaz, Amalek; these `are' sons of Adah wife of Esau. 
013 And these `are' sons of Reuel: Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah; these were sons of Bashemath wife of Esau. 
014 And these have been the sons of Aholibamah daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon, wife of Esau; and she beareth to Esau, Jeush and Jaalam and Korah.  
015 These `are' chiefs of the sons of Esau: sons of Eliphaz, first-born of Esau: chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, chief Kenaz, 
016 chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek; these `are' chiefs of Eliphaz, in the land of Edom; these `are' sons of Adah. 
017 And these `are' sons of Reuel son of Esau: chief Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah; these `are' chiefs of Reuel, in the land of Edom; these `are' sons of Bashemath wife of Esau. 
018 And these `are' sons of Aholibamah wife of Esau: chief Jeush, chief Jaalam, chief Korah; these `are' chiefs of Aholibamah daughter of Anah, wife of Esau. 
019 These `are' sons of Esau (who `is' Edom), and these their chiefs. 
020 These `are' sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 
021 and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan; these `are' chiefs of the Horites, sons of Seir, in the land of Edom. 
022 And the sons of Lotan are Hori and Heman; and a sister of Lotan `is' Timna. 
023 And these `are' sons of Shobal: Alvan and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho and Onam. 
024 And these `are' sons of Zibeon, both Ajah and Anah: it `is' Anah that hath found the Imim in the wilderness, in his feeding the asses of Zibeon his father. 
025 And these `are' sons of Anah: Dishon, and Aholibamah daughter of Anah. 
026 And these `are' sons of Dishon: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
027 These `are' sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. 
028 These `are' sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
029 These `are' chiefs of the Horite: chief Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah, 
030 chief Dishon, chief Ezer, chief Dishan: these `are' chiefs of the Horite in reference to their chiefs in the land of Seir. 
031 And these `are' the kings who have reigned in the land of Edom before the reigning of a king over the sons of Israel. 
032 And Bela son of Beor reigneth in Edom, and the name of his city `is' Dinhabah; 
033 and Bela dieth, and reign in his stead doth Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah;  
034 and Jobab dieth, and reign in his stead doth Husham from the land of the Temanite.  
035 And Husham dieth, and reign in his stead doth Hadad son of Bedad (who smiteth Midian in the field of Moab), and the name of his city `is' Avith; 
036 and Hadad dieth, and reign in his stead doth Samlah of Masrekah;  
037 and Samlah dieth, and reign in his stead doth Saul from Rehoboth of the River;  
038 and Saul dieth, and reign in his stead doth Baal-hanan son of Achbor;  
039 and Baal-hanan son of Achbor dieth, and reign in his stead doth Hadar, and the name of his city `is' Pau; and his wife's name `is' Mehetabel daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-zahab. 
040 And these `are' the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their families, according to their places, by their names: chief Timnah, chief Alvah, chief Jetheth, 
041 chief Aholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,  
042 chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,  
043 chief Magdiel, chief Iram: these `are' chiefs of Edom, in reference to their dwellings, in the land of their possession; he `is' Esau father of Edom. 
