001 And Joseph falleth on his father's face, and weepeth over him, and kisseth him;  
002 and Joseph commandeth his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father, and the physicians embalm Israel;  
003 and they fulfil for him forty days, for so they fulfil the days of the embalmed, and the Egyptians weep for him seventy days.  
004 And the days of his weeping pass away, and Joseph speaketh unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, `If, I pray you, I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,  
005 My father caused me to swear, saying, Lo, I am dying; in my burying-place which I have prepared for myself in the land of Canaan, there dost thou bury me; and now, let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and return;'  
006 and Pharaoh saith, `Go up and bury thy father, as he caused thee to swear.'  
007 And Joseph goeth up to bury his father, and go up with him do all the servants of Pharaoh, elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,  
008 and all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and the house of his father; only their infants, and their flock, and their herd, have they left in the land of Goshen;  
009 and there go up with him both chariot and horsemen, and the camp is very great.  
010 And they come unto the threshing-floor of Atad, which `is' beyond the Jordan, and they lament there, a lamentation great and very grievous; and he maketh for his father a mourning seven days, 
011 and the inhabitant of the land, the Canaanite, see the mourning in the threshing-floor of Atad, and say, `A grievous mourning `is' this to the Egyptians;' therefore hath `one' called its name `The mourning of the Egyptians,' which `is' beyond the Jordan. 
012 And his sons do to him so as he commanded them,  
013 and his sons bear him away to the land of Canaan, and bury him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a burying-place, from Ephron the Hittite, on the front of Mamre.  
014 And Joseph turneth back to Egypt, he and his brethren, and all who are going up with him to bury his father, after his burying his father.  
015 And the brethren of Joseph see that their father is dead, and say, `Peradventure Joseph doth hate us, and doth certainly return to us all the evil which we did with him.'  
016 And they give a charge for Joseph, saying, `Thy father commanded before his death, saying,  
017 Thus ye do say to Joseph, I pray thee, bear, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy brethren, and their sin, for they have done thee evil; and now, bear, we pray thee, with the transgression of the servants of the God of thy father;' and Joseph weepeth in their speaking unto him.  
018 And his brethren also go and fall before him, and say, `Lo, we `are' to thee for servants.' 
019 And Joseph saith unto them, `Fear not, for `am' I in the place of God? 
020 As for you, ye devised against me evil -- God devised it for good, in order to do as `at' this day, to keep alive a numerous people; 
021 and now, fear not: I do nourish you and your infants;' and he comforteth them, and speaketh unto their heart.  
022 And Joseph dwelleth in Egypt, he and the house of his father, and Joseph liveth a hundred and ten years,  
023 and Joseph looketh on Ephraim's sons of the third `generation'; sons also of Machir, son of Manasseh, have been born on the knees of Joseph. 
024 And Joseph saith unto his brethren, `I am dying, and God doth certainly inspect you, and hath caused you to go up from this land, unto the land which He hath sworn to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.'  
025 And Joseph causeth the sons of Israel to swear, saying, `God doth certainly inspect you, and ye have brought up my bones from this `place'.' 
026 And Joseph dieth, a son of an hundred and ten years, and they embalm him, and he is put into a coffin in Egypt.  
