001 And the man knew Eve his wife, and she conceiveth and beareth Cain, and saith, `I have gotten a man by Jehovah;'  
002 and she addeth to bear his brother, even Abel. And Abel is feeding a flock, and Cain hath been servant of the ground.  
003 And it cometh to pass at the end of days that Cain bringeth from the fruit of the ground a present to Jehovah;  
004 and Abel, he hath brought, he also, from the female firstlings of his flock, even from their fat ones; and Jehovah looketh unto Abel and unto his present,  
005 and unto Cain and unto his present He hath not looked; and it is very displeasing to Cain, and his countenance is fallen.  
006 And Jehovah saith unto Cain, `Why hast thou displeasure? and why hath thy countenance fallen?  
007 Is there not, if thou dost well, acceptance? and if thou dost not well, at the opening a sin-offering is crouching, and unto thee its desire, and thou rulest over it.'  
008 And Cain saith unto Abel his brother, ``Let us go into the field;'' and it cometh to pass in their being in the field, that Cain riseth up against Abel his brother, and slayeth him. 
009 And Jehovah saith unto Cain, `Where `is' Abel thy brother?' and he saith, `I have not known; my brother's keeper -- I?' 
010 And He saith, `What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood is crying unto Me from the ground;  
011 and now, cursed `art' thou from the ground, which hath opened her mouth to receive the blood of thy brother from thy hand; 
012 when thou tillest the ground, it doth not add to give its strength to thee -- a wanderer, even a trembling one, thou art in the earth.'  
013 And Cain saith unto Jehovah, `Greater is my punishment than to be borne;  
014 lo, Thou hast driven me to-day from off the face of the ground, and from Thy face I am hid; and I have been a wanderer, even a trembling one, in the earth, and it hath been -- every one finding me doth slay me.'  
015 And Jehovah saith to him, `Therefore -- of any slayer of Cain sevenfold it is required;' and Jehovah setteth to Cain a token that none finding him doth slay him.  
016 And Cain goeth out from before Jehovah, and dwelleth in the land, moving about east of Eden;  
017 and Cain knoweth his wife, and she conceiveth, and beareth Enoch; and he is building a city, and he calleth the name of the city, according to the name of his son -- Enoch.  
018 And born to Enoch is Irad; and Irad hath begotten Mehujael; and Mehujael hath begotten Methusael; and Methusael hath begotten Lamech.  
019 And Lamech taketh to himself two wives, the name of the one Adah, and the name of the second Zillah.  
020 And Adah beareth Jabal, he hath been father of those inhabiting tents and purchased possessions;  
021 and the name of his brother `is' Jubal, he hath been father of every one handling harp and organ. 
022 And Zillah she also bare Tubal-Cain, an instructor of every artificer in brass and iron; and a sister of Tubal-Cain `is' Naamah. 
023 And Lamech saith to his wives: -- `Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; Wives of Lamech, give ear `to' my saying: For a man I have slain for my wound, Even a young man for my hurt; 
024 For sevenfold is required for Cain, And for Lamech seventy and sevenfold.'  
025 And Adam again knoweth his wife, and she beareth a son, and calleth his name Seth, `for God hath appointed for me another seed instead of Abel:' for Cain had slain him.  
026 And to Seth, to him also a son hath been born, and he calleth his name Enos; then a beginning was made of preaching in the name of Jehovah.  
