001 This `is' an account of the births of Adam: In the day of God's preparing man, in the likeness of God He hath made him; 
002 a male and a female He hath prepared them, and He blesseth them, and calleth their name Man, in the day of their being prepared.  
003 And Adam liveth an hundred and thirty years, and begetteth `a son' in his likeness, according to his image, and calleth his name Seth. 
004 And the days of Adam after his begetting Seth are eight hundred years, and he begetteth sons and daughters.  
005 And all the days of Adam which he lived are nine hundred and thirty years, and he dieth.  
006 And Seth liveth an hundred and five years, and begetteth Enos.  
007 And Seth liveth after his begetting Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
008 And all the days of Seth are nine hundred and twelve years, and he dieth.  
009 And Enos liveth ninety years, and begetteth Cainan.  
010 And Enos liveth after his begetting Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
011 And all the days of Enos are nine hundred and five years, and he dieth.  
012 And Cainan liveth seventy years, and begetteth Mahalaleel.  
013 And Cainan liveth after his begetting Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
014 And all the days of Cainan are nine hundred and ten years, and he dieth.  
015 And Mahalaleel liveth five and sixty years, and begetteth Jared.  
016 And Mahalaleel liveth after his begetting Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
017 And all the days of Mahalaleel are eight hundred and ninety and five years, and he dieth.  
018 And Jared liveth an hundred and sixty and two years, and begetteth Enoch.  
019 And Jared liveth after his begetting Enoch eight hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
020 And all the days of Jared are nine hundred and sixty and two years, and he dieth.  
021 And Enoch liveth five and sixty years, and begetteth Methuselah.  
022 And Enoch walketh habitually with God after his begetting Methuselah three hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
023 And all the days of Enoch are three hundred and sixty and five years.  
024 And Enoch walketh habitually with God, and he is not, for God hath taken him.  
025 And Methuselah liveth an hundred and eighty and seven years, and begetteth Lamech.  
026 And Methuselah liveth after his begetting Lamech seven hundred and eighty and two years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
027 And all the days of Methuselah are nine hundred and sixty and nine years, and he dieth.  
028 And Lamech liveth an hundred and eighty and two years, and begetteth a son,  
029 and calleth his name Noah, saying, `This `one' doth comfort us concerning our work, and concerning the labour of our hands, because of the ground which Jehovah hath cursed.' 
030 And Lamech liveth after his begetting Noah five hundred and ninety and five years, and begetteth sons and daughters.  
031 And all the days of Lamech are seven hundred and seventy and seven years, and he dieth.  
032 And Noah is a son of five hundred years, and Noah begetteth Shem, Ham, and Japheth.  
