001 These are the journeys of the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron. 
002 And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according to their goings out. 
003 And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after the passover the children of Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians. 
004 For the Egyptians buried all their firstborn, which the LORD had smitten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments. 
005 And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth. 
006 And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness. 
007 And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth, which is before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol. 
008 And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah. 
009 And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim were twelve fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and they pitched there. 
010 And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea. 
011 And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin. 
012 And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah. 
013 And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush. 
014 And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink. 
015 And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wilderness of Sinai. 
016 And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at Kibrothhattaavah. 
017 And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth. 
018 And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah. 
019 And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez. 
020 And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah. 
021 And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah. 
022 And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah. 
023 And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher. 
024 And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah. 
025 And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth. 
026 And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath. 
027 And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah. 
028 And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah. 
029 And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah. 
030 And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth. 
031 And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan. 
032 And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad. 
033 And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah. 
034 And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah. 
035 And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber. 
036 And they removed from Eziongaber, and pitched in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh. 
037 And they removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom. 
038 And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth month. 
039 And Aaron was an hundred and twenty and three years old when he died in mount Hor. 
040 And king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel. 
041 And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah. 
042 And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon. 
043 And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth. 
044 And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in the border of Moab. 
045 And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad. 
046 And they removed from Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim. 
047 And they removed from Almondiblathaim, and pitched in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo. 
048 And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho. 
049 And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimoth even unto Abelshittim in the plains of Moab. 
050 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying, 
051 Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye are passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan; 
052 Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their pictures, and destroy all their molten images, and quite pluck down all their high places: 
053 And ye shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land, and dwell therein: for I have given you the land to possess it. 
054 And ye shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families: and to the more ye shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer ye shall give the less inheritance: every man's inheritance shall be in the place where his lot falleth; according to the tribes of your fathers ye shall inherit. 
055 But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you; then it shall come to pass, that those which ye let remain of them shall be pricks in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and shall vex you in the land wherein ye dwell. 
056 Moreover it shall come to pass, that I shall do unto you, as I thought to do unto them. 
