001 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of the congregation, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying, 
002 Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, after their families, by the house of their fathers, with the number of their names, every male by their polls; 
003 From twenty years old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel: thou and Aaron shall number them by their armies. 
004 And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head of the house of his fathers. 
005 And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you: of the tribe of Reuben; Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
006 Of Simeon; Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
007 Of Judah; Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
008 Of Issachar; Nethaneel the son of Zuar. 
009 Of Zebulun; Eliab the son of Helon. 
010 Of the children of Joseph: of Ephraim; Elishama the son of Ammihud: of Manasseh; Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
011 Of Benjamin; Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
012 Of Dan; Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
013 Of Asher; Pagiel the son of Ocran. 
014 Of Gad; Eliasaph the son of Deuel. 
015 Of Naphtali; Ahira the son of Enan. 
016 These were the renowned of the congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, heads of thousands in Israel. 
017 And Moses and Aaron took these men which are expressed by their names: 
018 And they assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month, and they declared their pedigrees after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls. 
019 As the LORD commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai. 
020 And the children of Reuben, Israel's eldest son, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
021 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Reuben, were forty and six thousand and five hundred. 
022 Of the children of Simeon, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, those that were numbered of them, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
023 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Simeon, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. 
024 Of the children of Gad, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
025 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Gad, were forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty. 
026 Of the children of Judah, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
027 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Judah, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. 
028 Of the children of Issachar, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
029 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Issachar, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
030 Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
031 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Zebulun, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. 
032 Of the children of Joseph, namely, of the children of Ephraim, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
033 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Ephraim, were forty thousand and five hundred. 
034 Of the children of Manasseh, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
035 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Manasseh, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred. 
036 Of the children of Benjamin, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
037 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Benjamin, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred. 
038 Of the children of Dan, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
039 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Dan, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred. 
040 Of the children of Asher, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
041 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Asher, were forty and one thousand and five hundred. 
042 Of the children of Naphtali, throughout their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 
043 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Naphtali, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred. 
044 These are those that were numbered, which Moses and Aaron numbered, and the princes of Israel, being twelve men: each one was for the house of his fathers. 
045 So were all those that were numbered of the children of Israel, by the house of their fathers, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war in Israel; 
046 Even all they that were numbered were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
047 But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them. 
048 For the LORD had spoken unto Moses, saying, 
049 Only thou shalt not number the tribe of Levi, neither take the sum of them among the children of Israel: 
050 But thou shalt appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of testimony, and over all the vessels thereof, and over all things that belong to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and all the vessels thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encamp round about the tabernacle. 
051 And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall take it down: and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. 
052 And the children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, throughout their hosts. 
053 But the Levites shall pitch round about the tabernacle of testimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of the children of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of testimony. 
054 And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they. 
