001 A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger. 
002 The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness. 
003 The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. 
004 A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit. 
005 A fool despiseth his father's instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent. 
006 In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble. 
007 The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish doeth not so. 
008 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but the prayer of the upright is his delight. 
009 The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness. 
010 Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he that hateth reproof shall die. 
011 Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the hearts of the children of men? 
012 A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise. 
013 A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken. 
014 The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness. 
015 All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. 
016 Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble therewith. 
017 Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. 
018 A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife. 
019 The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain. 
020 A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother. 
021 Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly. 
022 Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established. 
023 A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it! 
024 The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath. 
025 The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow. 
026 The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but the words of the pure are pleasant words. 
027 He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live. 
028 The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things. 
029 The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous. 
030 The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat. 
031 The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise. 
032 He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding. 
033 The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility. 
