001 Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool. 
002 Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he that hasteth with his feet sinneth. 
003 The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth against the LORD. 
004 Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour. 
005 A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall not escape. 
006 Many will entreat the favour of the prince: and every man is a friend to him that giveth gifts. 
007 All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his friends go far from him? he pursueth them with words, yet they are wanting to him. 
008 He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good. 
009 A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall perish. 
010 Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes. 
011 The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression. 
012 The king's wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass. 
013 A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping. 
014 House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent wife is from the LORD. 
015 Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger. 
016 He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; but he that despiseth his ways shall die. 
017 He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the LORD; and that which he hath given will he pay him again. 
018 Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying. 
019 A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again. 
020 Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end. 
021 There are many devices in a man's heart; nevertheless the counsel of the LORD, that shall stand. 
022 The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better than a liar. 
023 The fear of the LORD tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil. 
024 A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again. 
025 Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge. 
026 He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach. 
027 Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from the words of knowledge. 
028 An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity. 
029 Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools. 
