001 Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish. 
002 A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn. 
003 A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved. 
004 A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones. 
005 The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit. 
006 The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them. 
007 The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand. 
008 A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised. 
009 He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread. 
010 A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. 
011 He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding. 
012 The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit. 
013 The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble. 
014 A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompense of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him. 
015 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. 
016 A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame. 
017 He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit. 
018 There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health. 
019 The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment. 
020 Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy. 
021 There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief. 
022 Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight. 
023 A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. 
024 The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute. 
025 Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad. 
026 The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them. 
027 The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious. 
028 In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway thereof there is no death. 
