001 These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out. 
002 It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings is to search out a matter. 
003 The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable. 
004 Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer. 
005 Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness. 
006 Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men: 
007 For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen. 
008 Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame. 
009 Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself; and discover not a secret to another: 
010 Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not away. 
011 A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. 
012 As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear. 
013 As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters. 
014 Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind without rain. 
015 By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone. 
016 Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it. 
017 Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee. 
018 A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow. 
019 Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint. 
020 As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart. 
021 If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink: 
022 For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee. 
023 The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue. 
024 It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman and in a wide house. 
025 As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country. 
026 A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring. 
027 It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own glory is not glory. 
028 He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls. 
