001 Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of bronze. 
002 The first chariot had red horses, the second black horses, 
003 the third white horses, and the fourth chariot dappled horses- all of them strong. 
004 Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, `What are these, my lord?` 
005 And the angel answered and said to me, `These are going out to the four winds of heaven, after presenting themselves before the LORD of all the earth. 
006 The chariot with the black horses goes toward the north country, the white ones go after them, and the dappled ones go toward the south country.` 
007 When the strong horses came out, they were impatient to go and patrol the earth. And he said, `Go, patrol the earth.` So they patrolled the earth. 
008 Then he cried to me, `Behold, those who go toward the north country have set my Spirit at rest in the north country.` 
009 And the word of the LORD came to me: 
010 `Take from the exiles Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, who have arrived from Babylon, and go the same day to the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah. 
011 Take from them silver and gold, and make a crown, and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest. 
012 And say to him, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, `Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: for he shall branch out from his place, and he shall build the temple of the LORD. 
013 It is he who shall build the temple of the LORD and shall bear royal honor, and shall sit and rule on his throne. And there shall be a priest on his throne, and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.`' 
014 And the crown shall be in the temple of the LORD as a reminder to Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen the son of Zephaniah. 
015 `And those who are far off shall come and help to build the temple of the LORD. And you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall come to pass, if you will diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God.` 
