001 And the word of the LORD of hosts came, saying, 
002 `Thus says the LORD of hosts: I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with great wrath. 
003 Thus says the LORD: I have returned to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem shall be called the faithful city, and the mountain of the LORD of hosts, the holy mountain. 
004 Thus says the LORD of hosts: Old men and old women shall again sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each with staff in hand because of great age. 
005 And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in its streets. 
006 Thus says the LORD of hosts: If it is marvelous in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, should it also be marvelous in my sight, declares the LORD of hosts? 
007 Thus says the LORD of hosts: behold, I will save my people from the east country and from the west country, 
008 and I will bring them to dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God, in faithfulness and in righteousness.` 
009 Thus says the LORD of hosts: `Let your hands be strong, you who in these days have been hearing these words from the mouth of the prophets who were present on the day that the foundation of the house of the LORD of hosts was laid, that the temple might be built. 
010 For before those days there was no wage for man or any wage for beast, neither was there any safety from the foe for him who went out or came in, for I set every man against his neighbor. 
011 But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people as in the former days, declares the LORD of hosts. 
012 For there shall be a sowing of peace. The vine shall give its fruit, and the ground shall give its produce, and the heavens shall give their dew. And I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things. 
013 And as you have been a byword of cursing among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong.` 
014 For thus says the LORD of hosts: `As I purposed to bring disaster to you when your fathers provoked me to wrath, and I did not relent, says the LORD of hosts, 
015 so again have I purposed in these days to bring good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah; fear not. 
016 These are the things that you shall do: Speak the truth to one another; render in your gates judgments that are true and make for peace; 
017 do not devise evil in your hearts against one another, and love no false oath, for all these things I hate, declares the LORD.` 
018 And the word of the LORD of hosts came to me, saying, 
019 `Thus says the LORD of hosts: The fast of the fourth month and the fast of the fifth and the fast of the seventh and the fast of the tenth shall be to the house of Judah seasons of joy and gladness and cheerful feasts. Therefore love truth and peace. 
020 `Thus says the LORD of hosts: Peoples shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities. 
021 The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, 'Let us go at once to entreat the favor of the LORD and to seek the LORD of hosts; I myself am going.' 
022 Many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek the LORD of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of the LORD. 
023 Thus says the LORD of hosts: In those days ten men from the nations of every tongue shall take hold of the robe of a Jew, saying, 'Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.'` 
