001 Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, 
002 which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy Scriptures, 
003 concerning his Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh 
004 and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, 
005 through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, 
006 including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ, 
007 To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
008 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. 
009 For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I mention you 
010 always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. 
011 For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you- 
012 that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. 
013 I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you (but thus far have been prevented), in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. 
014 I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish. 
015 So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. 
016 For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. 
017 For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, `The righteous shall live by faith.` 
018 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. 
019 For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. 
020 For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. 
021 For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. 
022 Claiming to be wise, they became fools, 
023 and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. 
024 Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, 
025 because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever! Amen. 
026 For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature; 
027 and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. 
028 And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. 
029 They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, 
030 slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, 
031 foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. 
032 Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them. 
