001 I am speaking the truth in Christ- I am not lying; my conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit- 
002 that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. 
003 For I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh. 
004 They are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, and the promises. 
005 To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. 
006 But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel, 
007 and not all are children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but `Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.` 
008 This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring. 
009 For this is what the promise said: `About this time next year I will return and Sarah shall have a son.` 
010 And not only so, but also when Rebecca had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac, 
011 though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad- in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works but because of his call- 
012 she was told, `The older will serve the younger.` 
013 As it is written, `Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.` 
014 What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means! 
015 For he says to Moses, `I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.` 
016 So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God, who has mercy. 
017 For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, `For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth.` 
018 So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. 
019 You will say to me then, `Why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will?` 
020 But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say to its molder, `Why have you made me like this?` 
021 Has the potter no right over the clay, to make out of the same lump one vessel for honored use and another for dishonorable use? 
022 What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, 
023 in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory- 
024 even us whom he has called, not from the Jews only but also from the Gentiles? 
025 As indeed he says in Hosea, `Those who were not my people I will call 'my people,' and her who was not beloved I will call 'beloved.'` 
026 `And in the very place where it was said to them, 'You are not my people,' there they will be called 'sons of the living God.'` 
027 And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel: `Though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved, 
028 for the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay.` 
029 And as Isaiah predicted, `If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah.` 
030 What shall we say, then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith; 
031 but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. 
032 Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, 
033 as it is written, `Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense; and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.` 
