001 Or do you not know, brothers- for I am speaking to those who know the law- that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? 
002 Thus a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies she is released from the law of marriage. 
003 Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress. 
004 Likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to another, to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. 
005 For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work in our members to bear fruit for death. 
006 But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve not under the old written code but in the new life of the Spirit. 
007 What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, `You shall not covet.` 
008 But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. Apart from the law, sin lies dead. 
009 I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died. 
010 The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. 
011 For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me. 
012 So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. 
013 Did that which is good, then, bring death to me? By no means! It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. 
014 For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin. 
015 I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. 
016 Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that it is good. 
017 So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. 
018 For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. 
019 For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. 
020 Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. 
021 So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. 
022 For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being, 
023 but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. 
024 Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death? 
025 Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. 
