001 Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. 
002 I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syntyche to agree in the Lord. 
003 Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women, who have labored side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life. 
004 Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, Rejoice. 
005 Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand; 
006 do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. 
007 And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. 
008 Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. 
009 What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me- practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. 
010 I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. 
011 Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. 
012 I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. 
013 I can do all things through him who strengthens me. 
014 Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble. 
015 And you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only. 
016 Even in Thessalonica you sent me help for my needs once and again. 
017 Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that increases to your credit. 
018 I have received full payment, and more. I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent, a fragrant offering, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. 
019 And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. 
020 To our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
021 Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. 
022 All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. 
023 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. 
