001 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO MUTH-LABBEN. A PSALM OF DAVID. I will give thanks to the LORD with my whole heart; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds. 
002 I will be glad and exult in you; I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. 
003 When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence. 
004 For you have maintained my just cause; you have sat on the throne, giving righteous judgment. 
005 You have rebuked the nations; you have made the wicked perish; you have blotted out their name forever and ever. 
006 The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins; their cities you rooted out; the very memory of them has perished. 
007 But the LORD sits enthroned forever; he has established his throne for justice, 
008 and he judges the world with righteousness; he judges the peoples with uprightness. 
009 The LORD is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. 
010 And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O LORD, have not forsaken those who seek you. 
011 Sing praises to the LORD, who sits enthroned in Zion! Tell among the peoples his deeds! 
012 For he who avenges blood is mindful of them; he does not forget the cry of the afflicted. 
013 Be gracious to me, O LORD! See my affliction from those who hate me, O you who lift me up from the gates of death, 
014 that I may recount all your praises, that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation. 
015 The nations have sunk in the pit that they made; in the net that they hid their own foot has been caught. 
016 The LORD has made himself known; he has executed judgment; the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. Higgaion. Selah 
017 The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget God. 
018 For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever. 
019 Arise, O LORD! Let not man prevail; let the nations be judged before you! 
020 Put them in fear, O LORD! Let the nations know that they are but men! Selah 
