001 TO THE CHOIRMASTER. A PSALM OF DAVID, THE SERVANT OF THE LORD, WHO ADDRESSED THE WORDS OF THIS SONG TO THE LORD ON THE DAY WHEN THE LORD RESCUED HIM FROM THE HAND OF ALL HIS ENEMIES, AND FROM THE HAND OF SAUL. HE SAID: I love you, O LORD, my strength. 
002 The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. 
003 I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. 
004 The cords of death encompassed me; the torrents of destruction assailed me; 
005 the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me. 
006 In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. 
007 Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because he was angry. 
008 Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from him. 
009 He bowed the heavens and came down; thick darkness was under his feet. 
010 He rode on a cherub and flew; he came swiftly on the wings of the wind. 
011 He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him, thick clouds dark with water. 
012 Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds. 
013 The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, hailstones and coals of fire. 
014 And he sent out his arrows and scattered them; he flashed forth lightnings and routed them. 
015 Then the channels of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils. 
016 He sent from on high, he took me; he drew me out of many waters. 
017 He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me. 
018 They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support. 
019 He brought me out into a broad place; he rescued me, because he delighted in me. 
020 The LORD dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he rewarded me. 
021 For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God. 
022 For all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me. 
023 I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt. 
024 So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. 
025 With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless; 
026 with the purified you show yourself pure; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous. 
027 For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down. 
028 For it is you who light my lamp; the LORD my God lightens my darkness. 
029 For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall. 
030 This God- his way is perfect; the word of the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. 
031 For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?- 
032 the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless. 
033 He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights. 
034 He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 
035 You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great. 
036 You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip. 
037 I pursued my enemies and overtook them, and did not turn back till they were consumed. 
038 I thrust them through, so that they were not able to rise; they fell under my feet. 
039 For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under me. 
040 You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed. 
041 They cried for help, but there was none to save; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them. 
042 I beat them fine as dust before the wind; I cast them out like the mire of the streets. 
043 You delivered me from strife with the people; you made me the head of the nations; people whom I had not known served me. 
044 As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me; foreigners came cringing to me. 
045 Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses. 
046 The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation- 
047 the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me, 
048 who delivered me from my enemies; yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me; you rescued me from the man of violence. 
049 For this I will praise you, O LORD, among the nations, and sing to your name. 
050 Great salvation he brings to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his offspring forever. 
