001 A MASKIL OF ASAPH.O God, why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? 
002 Remember your congregation, which you have purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage! Remember Mount Zion, where you have dwelt. 
003 Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary! 
004 Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place; they set up their own signs for signs. 
005 They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees. 
006 And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers. 
007 They set your sanctuary on fire; they profaned the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the ground. 
008 They said to themselves, `We will utterly subdue them`; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land. 
009 We do not see our signs; there is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long. 
010 How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever? 
011 Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them! 
012 Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth. 
013 You divided the sea by your might; you broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters. 
014 You crushed the heads of Leviathan; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness. 
015 You split open springs and brooks; you dried up ever-flowing streams. 
016 Yours is the day, yours also the night; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun. 
017 You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth; you have made summer and winter. 
018 Remember this, O LORD, how the enemy scoffs, and a foolish people reviles your name. 
019 Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts; do not forget the life of your poor forever. 
020 Have regard for the covenant, for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence. 
021 Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame; let the poor and needy praise your name. 
022 Arise, O God, defend your cause; remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day! 
023 Do not forget the clamor of your foes, the uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up continually! 
