001 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: ACCORDING TO LILIES. OF DAVID. Save me, O God! For the waters have come up to my neck. 
002 I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and the flood sweeps over me. 
003 I am weary with my crying out; my throat is parched. My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God. 
004 More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause; mighty are those who would destroy me, those who attack me with lies. What I did not steal must I now restore? 
005 O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you. 
006 Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord GOD of hosts; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel. 
007 For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach, that dishonor has covered my face. 
008 I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons. 
009 For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. 
010 When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting, it became my reproach. 
011 When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them. 
012 I am the talk of those who sit in the gate, and the drunkards make songs about me. 
013 But as for me, my prayer is to you, O LORD. At an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness. 
014 Deliver me from sinking in the mire; let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters. 
015 Let not the flood sweep over me, or the deep swallow me up, or the pit close its mouth over me. 
016 Answer me, O LORD, for your steadfast love is good; according to your abundant mercy, turn to me. 
017 Hide not your face from your servant; for I am in distress; make haste to answer me. 
018 Draw near to my soul, redeem me; ransom me because of my enemies! 
019 You know my reproach, and my shame and my dishonor; my foes are all known to you. 
020 Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. 
021 They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. 
022 Let their own table before them become a snare; and when they are at peace, let it become a trap. 
023 Let their eyes be darkened, so that they cannot see, and make their loins tremble continually. 
024 Pour out your indignation upon them, and let your burning anger overtake them. 
025 May their camp be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents. 
026 For they persecute him whom you have struck down, and they recount the pain of those you have wounded. 
027 Add to them punishment upon punishment; may they have no acquittal from you. 
028 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living; let them not be enrolled among the righteous. 
029 But I am afflicted and in pain; let your salvation, O God, set me on high! 
030 I will praise the name of God with a song; I will magnify him with thanksgiving. 
031 This will please the LORD more than an ox or a bull with horns and hoofs. 
032 When the humble see it they will be glad; you who seek God, let your hearts revive. 
033 For the LORD hears the needy and does not despise his own people who are prisoners. 
034 Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them. 
035 For God will save Zion and build up the cities of Judah, and people shall dwell there and possess it; 
036 the offspring of his servants shall inherit it, and those who love his name shall dwell in it. 
