001 TO THE CHOIRMASTER: WITH STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. A MASKIL OF DAVID. Give ear to my prayer, O God, and hide not yourself from my plea for mercy! 
002 Attend to me, and answer me; I am restless in my complaint and I moan, 
003 because of the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they drop trouble upon me, and in anger they bear a grudge against me. 
004 My heart is in anguish within me; the terrors of death have fallen upon me. 
005 Fear and trembling come upon me, and horror overwhelms me. 
006 And I say, `Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest; 
007 yes, I would wander far away; I would lodge in the wilderness; Selah 
008 I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest.` 
009 Destroy, O Lord, divide their tongues; for I see violence and strife in the city. 
010 Day and night they go around it on its walls, and iniquity and trouble are within it; 
011 ruin is in its midst; oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace. 
012 For it is not an enemy who taunts me- then I could bear it; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me- then I could hide from him. 
013 But it is you, a man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend. 
014 We used to take sweet counsel together; within God's house we walked in the throng. 
015 Let death steal over them; let them go down to Sheol alive; for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart. 
016 But I call to God, and the LORD will save me. 
017 Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice. 
018 He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me. 
019 God will give ear and humble them, he who is enthroned from of old, Selah because they do not change and do not fear God. 
020 My companion stretched out his hand against his friends; he violated his covenant. 
021 His speech was smooth as butter, yet war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. 
022 Cast your burden on the LORD, and he will sustain you; he will never permit the righteous to be moved. 
023 But you, O God, will cast them down into the pit of destruction; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in you. 
