001 Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. 
002 And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. 
003 They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: 
004 But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. 
005 While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. 
006 And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. 
007 Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. 
008 And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. 
009 But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. 
010 And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut. 
011 Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. 
012 But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. 
013 Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh. 
014 For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. 
015 And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. 
016 Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. 
017 And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. 
018 But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money. 
019 After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. 
020 And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. 
021 His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
022 He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. 
023 His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
024 Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strowed: 
025 And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine. 
026 His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strowed: 
027 Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. 
028 Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. 
029 For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. 
030 And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
031 When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: 
032 And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: 
033 And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. 
034 Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 
035 For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: 
036 Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. 
037 Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink? 
038 When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? 
039 Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? 
040 And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. 
041 Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: 
042 For I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink: 
043 I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. 
044 Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? 
045 Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. 
046 And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal. 
