001 Wo, spoiler! and thou not spoiled, And treacherous! and they dealt not treacherously with thee, When thou dost finish, O spoiler, thou art spoiled, When thou dost finish dealing treacherously, They deal treacherously with thee.  
002 O Jehovah, favour us, for thee we have waited, Be their arm, in the mornings, Yea, our salvation in time of adversity.  
003 From the voice of a multitude fled have peoples, From thine exaltation scattered have been nations.  
004 And gathered hath been your spoil, A gathering of the caterpillar, As a running to and fro of locusts is he running on it.  
005 Set on high is Jehovah, for He is dwelling on high, He filled Zion `with' judgment and righteousness, 
006 And hath been the stedfastness of thy times, The strength of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge, Fear of Jehovah -- it `is' His treasure. 
007 Lo, `Their Ariel,' they have cried without, Messengers of peace do weep bitterly.  
008 Desolated have been highways, Ceased hath he who passeth along the path, He hath broken covenant, He hath despised enemies, He hath not esteemed a man.  
009 Mourned, languished hath the land, Confounded hath been Lebanon, Withered hath been Sharon as a wilderness, And shaking are Bashan and Carmel.  
010 Now, do I arise, saith Jehovah, Now I am exalted, now I am lifted up.  
011 Ye conceive chaff, ye bear stubble, Your spirit! -- fire devoureth you.  
012 And peoples have been `as' burnings of lime, Thorns, as sweepings, with fire they burn. 
013 Hear, ye far off, that which I have done, And know, ye near ones, My might.  
014 Afraid in Zion have been sinners, Seized hath trembling the profane: Who doth dwell for us -- consuming fire, Who doth dwell for us -- burnings of the age?  
015 Whoso is walking righteously, And is speaking uprightly, Kicking against gain of oppressions, Shaking his hands from taking hold on a bribe, Stopping his ear from hearing of blood, And shutting his eyes from looking on evil,  
016 He high places doth inhabit, Strongholds of rock `are' his high tower, His bread hath been given, his waters stedfast. 
017 A king in his beauty, see do thine eyes, They see a land afar off.  
018 Thy heart doth meditate terror, Where `is' he who is counting? Where `is' he who is weighing? Where `is' he who is counting the towers? 
019 The strong people thou seest not, A people deeper of lip than to be understood, Of a scorned tongue, there is no understanding.  
020 See Zion, the city of our meetings, Thine eyes see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, A tent not taken down, Not removed are its pins for ever, And none of its cords are broken.  
021 But there mighty `is' Jehovah for us, A place of rivers -- streams broad of sides, No ship with oars doth go into it, And a mighty ship doth not pass over it. 
022 For Jehovah our judge, Jehovah our lawgiver, Jehovah our king -- He doth save us.  
023 Left have been thy ropes, They strengthen not rightly their mast, They have not spread out a sail, Then apportioned hath been a prey of much spoil, The lame have taken spoil.  
024 Nor doth an inhabitant say, `I was sick,' The people that is dwelling in it, is forgiven of iniquity!  
