001 The burden of Babylon that Isaiah son of Amoz hath seen:  
002 `On a high mountain lift ye up an ensign, Raise the voice to them, wave the hand, And they go in to the openings of nobles.  
003 I have given charge to My sanctified ones, Also I have called My mighty ones for Mine anger, Those rejoicing at Mine excellency.'  
004 A voice of a multitude in the mountains, A likeness of a numerous people, A voice of noise from the kingdoms of nations who are gathered, Jehovah of Hosts inspecting a host of battle!  
005 They are coming in from a land afar off, From the end of the heavens, Jehovah and the instruments of His indignation, To destroy all the land.  
006 Howl ye, for near `is' the day of Jehovah, As destruction from the Mighty it cometh. 
007 Therefore, all hands do fail, And every heart of man doth melt.  
008 And they have been troubled, Pains and pangs they take, As a travailing woman they are pained, A man at his friend they marvel, The appearance of flames -- their faces!  
009 Lo, the day of Jehovah doth come, Fierce, with wrath, and heat of anger, To make the land become a desolation, Yea, its sinning ones He destroyeth from it.  
010 For the stars of the heavens, and their constellations, Cause not their light to shine, Darkened hath been the sun in its going out, And the moon causeth not its light to come forth.  
011 And I have appointed on the world evil, And on the wicked their iniquity, And have caused to cease the excellency of the proud, And the excellency of the terrible I make low.  
012 I make man more rare than fine gold, And a common man than pure gold of Ophir.  
013 Therefore the heavens I cause to tremble, And the earth doth shake from its place, In the wrath of Jehovah of Hosts, And in a day of the heat of his anger.  
014 And it hath been, as a roe driven away, And as a flock that hath no gatherer, Each unto his people -- they turn, And each unto his land -- they flee.  
015 Every one who is found is thrust through, And every one who is added falleth by sword.  
016 And their sucklings are dashed to pieces before their eyes, Spoiled are their houses, and their wives lain with.  
017 Lo, I am stirring up against them the Medes, Who silver esteem not, And gold -- they delight not in it.  
018 And bows dash young men to pieces, And the fruit of the womb they pity not, On sons their eye hath no pity.  
019 And Babylon, the beauty of kingdoms, The glory, the excellency of the Chaldeans, Hath been as overthrown by God, With Sodom and with Gomorrah.  
020 She doth not sit for ever, Nor continueth unto many generations, Nor doth Arab pitch tent there, And shepherds lie not down there.  
021 And Ziim have lain down there, And full have been their houses of howlings, And dwelt there have daughters of an ostrich, And goats do skip there.  
022 And Aiim have responded in his forsaken habitations, And dragons in palaces of delight, And near to come `is' her time, And her days are not drawn out! 
