001 Lo, for righteousness doth a king reign, As to princes, for judgment they rule.  
002 And each hath been as a hiding-place `from' wind, And as a secret hiding-place `from' inundation, As rivulets of waters in a dry place, As a shadow of a heavy rock in a weary land. 
003 And not dazzled are the eyes of beholders, And the ears of hearers do attend.  
004 And the heart of those hastened Understandeth to know, And the tongue of stammerers hasteth to speak clearly.  
005 A fool is no more called `noble,' And to a miser it is not said, `rich;'  
006 For a fool speaketh folly, And his heart doth iniquity, to do profanity, And to speak concerning Jehovah error, To empty the soul of the hungry, Yea, drink of the thirsty he causeth to lack.  
007 And the miser -- his instruments `are' evil, He hath counselled wicked devices, To corrupt the poor with lying sayings, Even when the needy speaketh justly. 
008 And the noble counselled noble things, And he for noble things riseth up.  
009 Women, easy ones, rise, hear my voice, Daughters, confident ones, give ear `to' my saying, 
010 Days and a year ye are troubled, O confident ones, For consumed hath been harvest, The gathering cometh not.  
011 Tremble ye women, ye easy ones, Be troubled, ye confident ones, Strip and make bare, with a girdle on the loins,  
012 For breasts they are lamenting, For fields of desire, for the fruitful vine.  
013 Over the ground of my people thorn -- brier goeth up, Surely over all houses of joy of the exulting city,  
014 Surely the palace hath been left, The multitude of the city forsaken, Fort and watch-tower hath been for dens unto the age, A joy of wild asses -- a pasture of herds;  
015 Till emptied out on us is the Spirit from on high, And a wilderness hath become a fruitful field, And the fruitful field for a forest is reckoned.  
016 And dwelt in the wilderness hath judgment, And righteousness in the fruitful field remaineth.  
017 And a work of the righteousness hath been peace, And a service of the righteousness -- Keeping quiet and confidence unto the age.  
018 And dwelt hath My people in a peaceful habitation, And in stedfast tabernacles, And in quiet resting-places.  
019 And it hath hailed in the going down of the forest, And in the valley is the city low.  
020 Happy `are' ye sowing by all waters, Sending forth the foot of the ox and the ass! 
