001 Pursue love, and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy. 
002 For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit. 
003 On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation. 
004 The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up the church. 
005 Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up. 
006 Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching? 
007 If even lifeless instruments, such as the flute or the harp, do not give distinct notes, how will anyone know what is played? 
008 And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle? 
009 So with yourselves, if with your tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air. 
010 There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning, 
011 but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me. 
012 So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church. 
013 Therefore, one who speaks in a tongue should pray for the power to interpret. 
014 For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unfruitful. 
015 What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also; I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing with my mind also. 
016 Otherwise, if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say `Amen` to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying? 
017 For you may be giving thanks well enough, but the other person is not being built up. 
018 I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you. 
019 Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue. 
020 Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in your thinking be mature. 
021 In the Law it is written, `By people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord.` 
022 Thus tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign not for unbelievers but for believers. 
023 If, therefore, the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds? 
024 But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all, 
025 the secrets of his heart are disclosed, and so, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you. 
026 What then, brothers? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up. 
027 If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn, and let someone interpret. 
028 But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in church and speak to himself and to God. 
029 Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said. 
030 If a revelation is made to another sitting there, let the first be silent. 
031 For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged, 
032 and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets. 
033 For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints, 
034 the women should keep silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be in submission, as the Law also says. 
035 If there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church. 
036 Or was it from you that the word of God came? Or are you the only ones it has reached? 
037 If anyone thinks that he is a prophet, or spiritual, he should acknowledge that the things I am writing to you are a command of the Lord. 
038 If anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized. 
039 So, my brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues. 
040 But all things should be done decently and in order. 
