001 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed. 
002 You know that when you were pagans you were led astray to mute idols, however you were led. 
003 Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says `Jesus is accursed!` and no one can say `Jesus is Lord` except in the Holy Spirit. 
004 Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit; 
005 and there are varieties of service, but the same Lord; 
006 and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone. 
007 To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. 
008 To one is given through the Spirit the utterance of wisdom, and to another the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit, 
009 to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit, 
010 to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another the ability to distinguish between spirits, to another various kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. 
011 All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually as he wills. 
012 For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. 
013 For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body- Jews or Greeks, slaves or free- and all were made to drink of one Spirit. 
014 For the body does not consist of one member but of many. 
015 If the foot should say, `Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body,` that would not make it any less a part of the body. 
016 And if the ear should say, `Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body,` that would not make it any less a part of the body. 
017 If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? 
018 But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them, as he chose. 
019 If all were a single member, where would the body be? 
020 As it is, there are many parts, yet one body. 
021 The eye cannot say to the hand, `I have no need of you,` nor again the head to the feet, `I have no need of you.` 
022 On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable, 
023 and on those parts of the body that we think less honorable we bestow the greater honor, and our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty, 
024 which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it, 
025 that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. 
026 If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together. 
027 Now you are the body of Christ and individually members of it. 
028 And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues. 
029 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles? 
030 Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 
031 But earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way. 
