001 Paul, called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes, 
002 To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours: 
003 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
004 I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus, 
005 that in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge- 
006 even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you- 
007 so that you are not lacking in any spiritual gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
008 who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
009 God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. 
010 I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment. 
011 For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers. 
012 What I mean is that each one of you says, `I follow Paul,` or `I follow Apollos,` or `I follow Cephas,` or `I follow Christ.` 
013 Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? 
014 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius, 
015 so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. 
016 (I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else.) 
017 For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. 
018 For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. 
019 For it is written, `I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart.` 
020 Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? 
021 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. 
022 For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, 
023 but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, 
024 but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. 
025 For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 
026 For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth. 
027 But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong; 
028 God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, 
029 so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. 
030 He is the source of your life in Christ Jesus, whom God made our wisdom and our righteousness and sanctification and redemption. 
031 Therefore, as it is written, `Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.` 
